---
title: "Keeping Up"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2018-04-08
---

>>

>> I get this question fairly often from students who have just completed
their first or second semester programming course at Brandeis and would like
to continue on their own. How do I keep up with my field? How do you, Pito,
Keep up?

>>

>> It depends a lot on how you learn best. Some people learn by reading from a
paper book, some by browsing through a pdf of a book (who knows where they
find those!?), some watch videos and some just use google.

>>

>> ## Congratulations!

>>

>> Congratualations! You have picked a field that changes incredibly quickly.
Whatever you learn today will be obsolete in the not too distant future. You
have to invest in yourself, and work at keeping up with what's going on. More
than one of you have asked me what my personal methodology is, so here is my
system

>>

>> ## Be in the general flow

>>

>> You should regularly keep up with general news, however you do that.
Whether you read the New York Times or the Boston Globe or Facebook or Hacker
News or whatever. Remember that those sources give you the headline but rarely
teach you anything.

>>

>> ## Figure out what kinds of things fascinate you

>>

>> Figure out what kinds of things fascinate you. You can’t keep up with
everything so track your own emotional reactions as you get exposed to new
ideas and concepts, in the paper, in class, on the radio, on facebook,
whatever. Once you see something that’s interesting you need to decide to dig
into it further, write some code, read some long articles.

>>

>> ## Some of my favorite Podcasts

>>

>> I listen to a lot of podcasts. Some are general and some are specific to a
certain language or framework. Here are some of my current favorites:

>>

>>   * [Real Python](<https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-real-python-
podcast/id1501905538>) and [Python
Bytes](<https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/python-bytes/id1173690032>) are
both excellent sources of new Python tools, techniques and personalities

>>   * [Stack Overflow Podcast](<https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-
stack-overflow-podcast/id1483510527>),
[Maintainable](<https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/maintainable/id1459893010>),
[Software Engineering Radio](<https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/software-
engineering-radio-the-podcast-for/id120906714>) are all excellent technical
podcasts which don't focus on a particular language or framework but cover
engineering, technology strategy, programming and many other great topics.

>>   * [Ruby Remote](<https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/remote-
ruby/id1397042613>), [Code with
Jason](<https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/code-with-jason/id1464180320>),
[Ruby Rogues](<https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/ruby-rogues/id705335155>)
and the[ Ruby on Rails Podcast](<https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-
ruby-on-rails-podcast/id840890158>) are all top Ruby and Rails resources

>>

>>

>> ## Some of my favorite mailing lists and web sites

>>

>> If a site has a mailing list, I prefer receiving a proactive notification
through email than having to go back and check if there's something new. I
will always forget to check!

>>

>>   * [My own blog (this one)](<https://salas.com>) has evolved and changed a
lot over the years. These days it's a pure link blog, where I post technical
links that I have found intriguing and fascinating.

>>   * [Changelog Weekly](<https://changelog.com/weekly>) covers the software
and computer industry

>>   * [Real Python](<https://realpython.com>) has excellent Python tips and
information

>>   * [Ruby Weekly](<https://rubyweekly.com>) is a very short summary of
everything that a Rubyist wants to keep up w

>>   * [Python weekly](<https://www.pythonweekly.com>) is a similar newletter
for Python

>>

>>

>> ## Some of my favorite Videos series and Youtube Channels

>>

>> If you have the time and like learning by watching (and who doesn't) then
these are some of the best video resources, some on Youtube (free) and others
not free but worth the money.

>>

>>   * [Arjan Codes](<https://www.youtube.com/c/arjancodes>) is an excellent
Python series with beginner and advanced topics covered

>>   * [Drifting Ruby](<https://www.driftingruby.com>) is a Ruby specific
resource that you can use for free, or ask me for a discount code

>>

>>

>> ## Some of my favorite professional books

>>

>>   * [Becoming a Technical Leader](<https://www.amazon.com/Becoming-
Technical-Leader-Problem-Solving-
Approach/dp/0932633021/ref=nav_custrec_signin?crid=1THXTG7HQ8X5T&keywords=becoming+a+technical+leader&qid=1662565587&sprefix=becoming+a+technical+leader%252Caps%252C69&sr=8-1&_encoding=UTF8&tag=blogbridge-20&linkCode=ur2&linkId=7782478c9187c7f22c179d1dff7cd139&camp=1789&creative=9325>)
**by Gerald Weinberg**. For me this book is the best guide for a new
development team lead or who is a first time manager of technical people.

>>   * [Accelerate](<https://amzn.to/3Chvvz7>) by **Jez Humble and Gene Kim**.
The subtitle of this book is " _Building and Scaling High Performing
Technology Organizations_ ". It is a great summary of current thinking about
Software Engineering processes and has the added advantage of being backed by
research that seems credible.

>>

>>

>> # Side Projects are crucial!

>>

>> If your goal is to land a job in software (applies equally to industry,
academia, government or non-profits) your resume only goes so far in
demonstrating what you can do. An excellent option that has greater impact
than people realize is to have a side project.

>>

>> ## How do I find one?

>>

>> My general advice first of all is to find a project or a purpose to your
study.  Don't just vacuum up (or try to) information from whatever source you
choose because in my opinion that approach doesn't work very well.

>>

>> Instead think of a project, it could be tiny, that would be fun to work on,
and make that your focus. If you care about what you are doing you will be
much more successful.

>>

>> If you're into a sport - is there something there relating to scores,
teams, leagues, practice, equipment, competitions, results, pictures, videos,
are involved, scores, records, practice logs, equipment? Maybe your parents or
other relatives do something that you want to build on? Maybe some application
for their business or an app for their customers? You get the idea…

>>

>> ## Don't do this by yourself - find a collaborator

>>

>> My next general advice is to not to study or work alone. This may be
difficult but it does make a big difference. Think about classmates, friends,
or even people you meet online. Are they working on something that you can get
interested in? You might be trying write a program to do something that
interests you. You might be doing programming challenges together. Maybe one
of you is learning one thing, say a new programming language, and the other
one is learning a new editor, and you just compare notes and help each other
solve problems.

>>

>> When you don't study or work on your own, you have someone to help you keep
focused, or to keep your motivation, or to pass the time with when you are
stuck and to take a break. Obviously all this can be done if you are not in
the same place, or even the same country.


