---
title: "Recommendations"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2019-07-17
---


>>

>> I get this question a lot, in fact near the end of the spring semester they
come in droves. I would like to answer your questions about the process. The
overall theme here will be that my recommendation will be only as good as the
information you supply to me.

>>

>> Realize that in order to write you a credible recommendation or give you a
reference, I need to know you to some extent. That means obviously that you've
taken a class, or done a project, or TA'd for me at some point. If I don't
feel like I know you well enough I will decline. In any event if you are
comfortable with this please include a picture to remind me what you look
like, I tend to have a very visual memory!

>>

>> Academic and Job recommendations are quite different. Here are my
suggestions for the two scenarios.

>>

>> ## Academic Recommendation

>>

>> If you are applying to grad school or transferring or something like that
then a written recommendation is typical.

>>

>> Here's how the process works and what I ask of you:

>>

>> First, check with me if I am willing to write a recommendation for you. I
will let you know that I agree if I feel that I know you well enough to write
one. If I have only known you as a student in one course, it's likely that we
don't know each other well enough so please bear that in mind when approaching
me for a recommendation.

>>

>> If I agree to writing you a recommendation, then please send me the
following:

>>

>>   * Your current resume (pdf not .doc or anything else)

>>   * A list of all the computer science courses you took, the professor, and
the grade.

>>   * An email with reminders of what courses you took with me, and when that
was. Include interesting or memorable things that happened or interactions
that we had.

>>   * If you're willing, include a photo so I can make sure I remember you
better

>>   * A list of deadlines emailed to me so that I aways know when the next
one is going to be needed.

>>

>>

>> Realize that the better a job you do giving me context the better a
recommendation I will write. With that information I will let you know that I
will be able to write the recommendation.

>>

>> When you submit the applications to the institution, they will ask for the
names and emails of your recommenders. You may list me there, and include my
email: pitosalas@brandeis.edu and my phone number. They will then send me an
email with a link for me to submit the recommendation.

>>

>> Please keep track of who you asked for recommendations, and when all the
deadlines are. A friendly reminder to me that a deadline is coming up is
appreciated

>>

>> ## Recommendation for a job or internship

>>

>> For job recommendations things work totally differently. The practice in
the "real world" is to give references, almost only by phone. So the procedure
is different:

>>

>> Check with me if I am willing to give you a reference. Please include the
following information to help jog my memory:

>>

>>   * Your current resume (pdf not .doc or anything else)

>>   * Rreminders of what courses you took with me, and when that was. Include
interesting or memorable things that happened or interactions that we had.

>>   * If you're willing, include a photo so I can make sure I remember you
better

>>   *

>>

>> Realize that the better a job you do giving me context the better a
recommendation I will be able to give.

>>

>> Usually during a second or third interview you will be asked for
references. If you have my agreement you can give them my name and cell phone
number. The usual practice is that I get a call and talk to the recuriter for
5 or ten minutes. There is no written recommendation as is typical for
academic recommendation.

>>

>> After giving that information out, I ask that you call or email me to alert
me that I might be getting a call and what the company or organization is.

>>

>> I hope this info is clear and useful for you. Feel free to ask me for more
details or clarifications. And good luck!


