---
title: "Forced to use Atom. Well,"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-02-29
---
# [Forced to use Atom. Well,](None)



>>

>> **Forced to use Atom.** Well, it's happeningâ€¦ My friend [Paul
English](<http://www.paulenglish.com/>) has been using Blogger for the longest
time for his personal blog. I often complained to him that I used a Blog
Reader (FeedDemon is my current favorite, until BlogBridge comes out ðŸ™‚ and
wouldn't be able to follow his blog until he had a feedâ€¦

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> Well as you may know, [Blogger](<http://www.blogger.com/>) now has a feed,
and it's uses the Atom format. In the **' tempest in a teapot'** department,
you might have followed the Atom/RSS battle, which took an interesting turn
when Blogger (=Google) decided to support _only_ Atom as their format. Clever
strategic move or **small minded vindictiveness**?

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> So, Paul's blog is the first time that I have been **forced to use Atom**.
Luckily the latest Beta of **FeedDemon _does_ support Atom** and so I can read
Paul's blog right along all my other favorites.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> This is just another in the continuing format, API, or protocol conflicts
which arise constantly in the our business. It's a **good kind of conflict**
because it raises important issues and allows things to evolve to a better
place.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> Remember VIM and MAPI? That battle **shook the very foundations** of the
software industry at the time. (VIM stood for "Vendor Independent Messaging"
but the running joke was that it really stood for "Vendors Ignoring
Microsoft", led by Lotus. Remember Lotus ðŸ˜‰ And more recently, how about
**SHTTP vs. HTTPS**? HTTPS eventually became SSL which of course is all anyone
remembers.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> My point is that as our products and visions and customers and platforms
move forward, there is a **constant tension between evolution and
compatibility**. It's clear that this is a good thing in the end, although a
whole lot of glass is broken along the way. The one thing I know for sure is
that it's **way too early to stop the evolution right now**.


