---
title: "[JAVAONE] Scott McNealy Keynote"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-06-29
---

**Link: [[JAVAONE] Scott McNealy Keynote](None):** ""


>>

>> I had never heard him speak - He's a lot of fun to listen to - funny and
with a sense of his audience. This was a shorter keynote then yesterday. This
wasn't the kind of **rah-rah** motivational speech that I was expecting. He
did drive home a few points, clearly showing what he was most interested in us
taking away:

>>

>>   * **Takeaway 1:** Scott wants us to believe that Sun is highly viable.
They will not be going away. $4 Billion in the bank, etc. Unit sales are
growing - at least over the last 3 Quarters.

>>   * **Takeaway 2:** Scott wants us to know that Sun’s support of Java is
unwavering. It is very expensive but it does help them to sell hardware. Sun
is very keen on supporting the Java community and to ensure that no-one
wonders whether Java is really behind us.

>>

>> As he known for, Scott then launched into his 'rants' although they really
were really quite tame. Here is what he is _' outraged' _over:

>>

>>   * **Where 's the outrage **on the proposal that companies be forced to
expence stock options? [I don't know - I don't understand the issues well
enough but if Warren Buffet thinks its a good idea to force companies to treat
the value of stock options as expenses, then it can't be _that_ outragous.]

>>   * **Where 's the outrage **on viruses? [The angle here of course is that
supposedly viruses only affect Microsoft systems, Java based systems. Even if
this where true, I am not sure it says anything, given the disparity of the
installed bases.]

>>   * **Where 's the outrage** on IBM pressuring Sun to Open Source Java?
After all Sun has historically submitted more to Open Source than any other
company – let them open source their own stuff. [Hmm, what about Eclipse?]

>>

>> Some factoids:

>>

>>   * 600 million Java smartcards shipped

>>   * 650 million PCs shipped with J2SE

>>   * "Who else has done smart card to mars rover compatibility” (which is a
pretty impressive statement, except, why would you want that?)


