---
title: "BlogBridge Starz!"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-08-20
---

Finally. Ever since we started working on
[BlogBridge](<http://www.blogbridge.com>), I've been talking about helping a
user slice and dice and **sort through a ton of blogs** and other channels,
finding the good from the bad, the interesting from the boring.

>>

>> Remember the catch phrase "â€¦ _the ability to follow hundreds of blogs
without loosing your mind_ " which is sprinkled all over our web site. In our
next beta you will **see the initial instantiation of this idea**.

>>

>> Channels (Blogs and other feeds) in BlogBridge are **rated with from one to
five stars**(unique, isn't it?) These stars will tell you how interesting
these Channels are to you.

>>

>>
![stars_1_20.gif](https://i0.wp.com/s3.media.squarespace.com/production/1075723/12829350/weblogs/archives/stars_1_20.gif?resize=92%2C15)

>>

>> The **secret sauce** is in how a certain Blog is rated with one or two or
three or four or five starz. This aint AI folks! It's actually pretty simple
and flexible.

>>

>> For each Blog, BlogBridge figures out**4 different metrics:**

>>

>>   * Importance. Using [Technorati's API](<http://www.technorati.com>), we
figure out how many inbound links there are, and use that as a proxy for
importance.

>>   * Rating. There's a Thumbs Up/Thumbs down widget where the user can,
Tivo-like, indicate subjectively how much they like the Blog

>>   * Keyword Hits. The user can, optionally, supply a global list of
keywords that are important to them (for me, "Pito", "Salas", "BlogBridge",
"eRoom", "Lotus"). This metric is simply counts the hits.

>>   * Activity. Using another web based service, we'll try to figure out how
actively this Blog is updated.

>>

>>

>> Given these four metrics (so far, but more can easily be added) we come up
with a number of stars to rate the blog. Of course the more advanced user can
tweak the mix to get the Starz to reflect their own priorities, using this
cool interface.

>>

>>
[![](https://i0.wp.com/s3.media.squarespace.com/production/1075723/12829350/weblogs/archives/starz-
thumb.jpg?resize=300%2C289)  
> Click here to enlarge.
> ](<http://s3.media.squarespace.com/production/1075723/12829350/weblogs/archives/starz.html>)
>>

>> Given the Starz Rating on each Channel, there are lots of other interesting
things we can do for the user. **That 's for another time.**


* **Link to site:** **[BlogBridge Starz!](None)**
