---
title: "Some arcana about how BlogStarz! work"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-10-18
---

**Link: [Some arcana about how BlogStarz! work](None):** ""

**Believe** me when I say that this **will only be interesting** to you if you
are curious about the thinking about the Starz rating system that we've built
into BlogBridge. If you don't have a burning curiosity, trust me, it will put
you to sleep 🙂

>>

>> The basic idea for the BlogStarz! mechanism is simple but the UI at this
point is still confusing practically everyone. I will explain it here and
describe changes we are planning.

>>

>> The idea is that the BlogStarz! are **generated by BlogBridge** and are
meant to be a summary rating that ought to match how interesting this
particular blog would be to the user, based on several factors.

>>

>> Currently **4 factors** are implemented: your personal rating (thumbs
up/down); how 'authorotative' this blog is (based on [Technorati
](<http://www.technorati.com>)rating); how 'active' the blog is; and how many
of your keywords hit in the blog. If you look in
BlogBridge/Preferences/BlogStarz you'll see 4 sliders that allow you to
customize the weight you'd like to put to each of those factors towards the
overall one to 5 star rating.

>>

>> Now, more on each of the factors. Thumbs Up/Down is today implemented
inconsistently. While the menu says thumbs up and down, the corresponding
indicator is the little icon in the top right of the blog's entry in the
Channels pane. Clicking on it you can see that it goes through 3 states: grey
box (for neutral), heart (for positive) and bomb (for negative.) Obviously
these are temporary icons. In the future this will change to a 4 state icon in
the shape of a thumb pointing up. It will go like this: greyed out, thumbs up,
two thumbs up and three thumbs up. It will have the same effect - allowing you
to give your own personal rating on the blog.

>>

>> We can determine how authoritative a certain blog is via the Technorati
service. For now, you have to [get a free Technorati key
](<http://www.technorati.com/members/signup.html>)from them by going to
www.technorati.com and requesting an API key. And then in BlogBridge, under
Preferences/Advanced you can enter the key (cut/paste but be careful of a
trailing space which will throw it off.) Once you do that, BlogBridge will, in
the background, ask Technorati how many inbound blog links there are in a
certain blog, and use that number as an indication of how authoritative the
blog is.

>>

>> Activity of a blog is simply how many posts have been added since you
started subscribing to it, divided by time. So a rough average of number of
posts per day.

>>

>> In the BlogBridge/Preferences/Highlights tab (should be called Keywords
tab) you can enter a list of words and phrases which are important to you.
BlogBridge will use those in many ways. It will highlight those words wherever
it sees them. It will also count them and rate a blog higher if there are a
lot of hits.

>>

>> You can see that this is a pretty elaborate, and overly configurable
scheme. That's because we are still trying to learn which of these factors (or
others) are the best predictor of the subjective "how interesting will you
find this blog" question, which the Starz are meant to convey.


