---
title: "Orkut Revisited: I had been"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-02-02
---


>>

>> **Orkut Revisited:** I had been wondering whether my [negative
vibes](</2004/01/24.html>) [about Orkut](</2004/01/29.html>) was because I was
the only person on the planet apparently that had not received an invitation.
Well that's all changed. And you know what? I still feel the same way. And
apparently I am [not the only](<http://doc.weblogs.com/2004/02/02>) oneâ€¦

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> In a bit of **very clever social engineering** , I believe the **allure of
Orkut** was (somewhat or mostly) about the fact that it was unattainable. By
being "Invitation Only" it produced two effects: a) people who were left out
wanted "in", and b) people who were "in" viewed it at some level as some kind
of validation - after all they were part of the " **in crowd "** now.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> Did you consider one consequence of the invitation-only scheme? **Who were
Adam and Eve**? Whoever **originally primed** the pump is by definition
**Generation ****Zero** of the whole network (presumably this is the developer
of Orkut.) His or her friends are Generation One, and so on. For all we know
we are all part of a **grand social science experiment** to create the
ultimate 6-degrees-of-separation map of the world. **I wonder what generation
I am!** I wonder who I am descended from? Do I have famous ancestors?
**Royalty maybe?**

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> Comparing Orkut with LinkedIn, **I favor LinkedIn**. Orkut has the feel of
a dating service, allowing me to rate my friends by their _**sexiness**_ for
crying out loud?? **Both Orkut and LinkedIn** suffer from people mass-
uploading all their contacts into it. First of all, [you end up annoying
people](<http://www.hyperorg.com/blogger/mtarchive/002401.html>) and second,
of course it dilutes the value of the network that the product represents. I
am a little **suspicious** of people in LinkedIn that have 100  **direct**
connections.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> All in all, LinkedIn serves (an admitedly minor) use for me. Other than
gawking and lurking you won't be seeing me on Orkut!


[Orkut Revisited: I had been](None)
