---
title: "Demo 2004 Series – I"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-02-25
---



**Demo 2004 Series - **I just returned from the [Demo 2004
Conference](<http://www.demo.com/demo/demonstrators/2004/page772.html>), and I
have some news and ideas that I will be writing about in the coming days. At
the highest level, Demo is a conference that I've been going to for years. It
is in the same league or family as PC Forum and Agenda. You might call it one
of the **legacy** conferences (… to contrast it with the new **cool**
conferences such as the **Emerging Technology Forum** and BloggerCon.)

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> If you are interested in what **new products** are coming out of the
mainstream computer industry, **Demo is great**. [Chris
Shipley](<http://cshipley.typepad.com/chris_shipley_group/>) who is the
MC/Executive Producer, selects about 60 products from all corners of the
industry representing the latest greatest. The selection criteria, as I
understand them, require the products to be _new_ (using a semi-**flexible**
definition of "new") So it could be a brand new product from a brand new
company, or a revolutionary new twist or generation of an existing product.
But these are all **hard-core-we-intend-to-make-a-lot-of-money** kinds of
deals, vs. the 'other kind' of product.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> Products that are especially interesting (to Chris) are put onto a break-
neck, 7 minute per demo, one and a half day schedule of stage presentations.
They are organized, more or less, by themes with Chris herself providing
commentary and context setting as the conference progresses. It's an excellent
format and a great way to see a lot and quickly.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> In addition to the stage demos, there are 'booths' where you can actually
see and touch the product, and importantly, speak to the actual **people who
invented** or built the product, and actually get in depth with them about the
products that really intrigue you.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> Anyway, I took **notes** during the meetings and I thought, since I had
already done the writing for my own **benefit**, I'd share them here for
yours.


