---
title: "Gmail, Part Deux: Strategy"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-12-23
---

So what might GMail's strategy be? I listened to a wonderful Podcast with
[Georges Harik](<http://www.itconversations.com/shows/detail302.html>) all
about [GMail](<http://www.gmail.com/>) and some of the thinking about it. If
you are interested in GMail, it's a **worthwhile** listen.

>>

>> I noticed that Georges kept referring to GMail as providing _great email_
**and communications** capabilities. An interesting and fine distinction to be
stressing, although the interviewer never referred to it.

>>

>> Another interesting strategic point that was covered was the question of
providing free POP and SMTP, which is certainly counterintuitive if you
believe that GMail is being made to make money, and the only way they make
money is via ads. For example, the way I am using GMail, through Outlook, I
never see the ads.

>>

>> Something that was said also made me think about GMail as more than a
consumer service. Georges seemed to focus totally on consumers, but at various
points left me thinking about what was not saidâ€¦

>>

>> Here are some speculations about Google's strategic intent with GMail:

>>

>>   * I doubt that they will decide to start charging for the 1Gig of
storage. That would be too close to being 'Evil'

>>   * What if the longer term plan is to create a for-pay commercial
offering. Going to global corporations like General Electric or Shell and
offering to take over their email infrastructure? They could offer value added
services for security, auditing, document retention, and many others. It would
be worth a lot of dough to those companies.

>>   * Why the focus on 'communications' in the interview ? It seems to imply
a distinct focus beyond simple email. Google might be positioning itself to
get into other media. How about getting into IM or VOIP? How about aquiring
Skype?

>>   * For the first time Google is building some lock-in. By being the store
for all their users email they make it much more difficult for people to take
their business elsewhere. Without that there is no loyalty and the next hot
search engine could lure us away.

>>

>> Of course the truth may be more prosaic - It might be that this is a simple
advertising revenue play - which might have
**astronomical](<http://mobile.gigaom.com/2006/08/31/americas-most-unwired-
cities/>) potential.


* **Link to site:** **[Gmail, Part Deux: Strategy](None)**
