---
title: "Email is not dead (Demo"
author: Pito Salas


date: 2004-03-01T01:20:29
---


>>

>> **Email is not dead (Demo 2004 Series - 7) **I continue to be an avid
follower of what's going on in the email space. Why? Here are some things to
think about:

>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  
>>

>>  
>
>>

>> From my [eRoom and Collaboration](<http://www.eroom.com>) days, I've been
very aware of the **challenges to achieving** adoption. My view is that the
challenge exists whenever the adoption of a new application or system
**requires some degree of coordination between a set of users**. Email is by
far the greatest example of an application of computers which has very
successfully overcome that barrier. I want to learn from that.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  
>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  **Second reason:** I've observed that the tools we use to work with email
(the general striucture email applications, email protocols, email use models)
basically were laid down in the 1970's. And yet, in the past 30 years (!)
email's role in society has totally changed, the volume of email has totally
changed, the numbers of users have totally changed, the purposes of use have
totally changed. **It feels like we are due for a major re-think of the
model**.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  
>>

>>  
>
>>

>> Would it be the merging of Instant Messaging with Email? Might it be the
merging of collaboration tools with Email. Might it be some fundamental move
away from the **Inbox/Outbox/Folders/Compose/Forward/Reply** model to
something perhaps more appropriate to the new world of email?

>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  
>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  **Anyway, back to Demo 2004.** There were some interesting email "related"
applications launched at Demo.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  
>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  **Bloomba Email Client** : [Bloomba 2.0](<http://www.statalabs.com/>) is,
believe it or not, an Outlook replacement that is worth a look. They are
literally and knowingly going head to head with Microsoft. They have a heavy
emphasis on searching within the email, which as you know, I think is super
important and overlooked. They've done a very nice job with the application,
and as I say, worth a look.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  
>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  **[MailBlocks Web Based Email client:](<http://about.mailblocks.com/>)
**This is a very interesting integration of email, calendar and contact
information. I believe that there is also fancy spam filtering technology. But
the neatest (and useful to me) feature is the automatic parsing of emails to
locate contact info changes and meeting information and proposing them to you
as calendar and address book updates. While there are multiple web based mail
clients, this one has a neat angle. Very nice. If you are interested in this
web based mail client, you should also check out OddPost, which is interesting
because it's a tour-de-force DHTML application that actually creates a real
GUI Outlook Express like experience, all with just a browser, and no
downloads.


