---
title: "[OOPSLA] Where Wikis come from"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-11-06
---


>>

>> I was lucky enough to meet and spend some time with [**Ward
Cunningham**](<http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?WardCunningham>)at [OOPSLA
](<http://www.oopsla.org/2004/ShowPage.do?id=Home>)this year. I also heard him
present in a big hall. If you are a [Wiki
](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki>)fan then you know that Ward is the one
who invented the concept.

>>

>> What seems to be a **little less well known** is how the idea evolved,
where it came from. I am sure it's written up somewhere. but I thought I'd
write down my own idiosynchratic understanding of the story.

>>

>> Ward was involved in the early days of the [Design Patterns
](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Design_pattern_\(computer_science\)>)movement,
which seems to have it's own roots in the OOPSLA conference. So here's the
**story**.

>>

>> At some gathering it was noted that there ought to be a central repository
of all the patterns that had been invented to date and a way for new ones to
be added.

>>

>> Ward kindly voluteered to build and maintain this repository. This was in
the early days of the Web, and it seemed like the logical medium to do this
in. So Ward set out to create a web site to be the repository. [It still
exists!](<http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?PortlandPatternRepository>)

>>

>> **The problem** was that no one really knew HTML at the time. So they would
send Ward emails with ideas for Patterns to be added to the repository and
Ward would then be editing those emails into HTML and then posting the pages.
This **didn 't scale too well.**

>>

>> Because the agreed upon form of a Pattern description was fairly
consistent, Ward decided to write a script to process the text he received
automatically into HTML. In fact he added some helpful formalisms like a '*"
for a bullet and so on. He asked people to follow this to make his life of
adding the new pages to the repository easier. **See where this is headed**?

>>

>> Ward was able to run his script and process the properly formatted Pattern
descriptions and turn them into HTML pages. **This saved a lot of time**
maintaining the web site with all the patterns.

>>

>> It **occurred** to Ward that he could automate this even further if he had
a page on his site where someone could submit their nicely formatted text. The
site would then automatically run the script, generate the html and store it
in the right place.  
> **  
> And so proto-wiki** was born. Of course this Wiki-markup **is only one of**
> the three (IMHO) **seminal** features of Wikis. The **other two** are: _the
> total lack of access control and the ability to refer to something before it
> exists._ **More on those later.**
>>

>> So that's the story, **as I heard** it. I thought it might be of interest
to you.


[[OOPSLA] Where Wikis come from](None)
