---
title: "Open Source, BlogBridge and Offshore"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-03-06
---
# [Open Source, BlogBridge and Offshore](None)



>>

>> **Open Source, BlogBridge and Offshore Development.** I've been using
several neat offshore development options in my work on Blog Bridge, a new
kind of Blog Reader that I've been working on (very) part time. You can read
all about it: [here](<http://www.blogbridge.com/>).

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> There's a developer in **Russia** , a designer in **China** , a programmer
in **Norway** and one in **California** (ok, not really offshore.) I don't
want to exagerate, each of these folks has done one project for me, mostly
pretty small. It's been an experiment for me to see how this works and how
effective it could be. So far so good.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> The designer in China **redesigned** the
[www.blogbridge.com](<http://www.blogbridge.com>) web site. You can take a
look. It was very reasonably priced and the work was professional. Nothing
extremelyy fancy, but clearly fancier than I have the skills to do. The three
developers did various pieces of Java code, installation script and even a
windows .dll. So, real code: again **very reasonably priced**.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  _Open Source._ As you may or may not know, Blog Bridge is Open Source.
I've had several people say, _**it 's open source and your paying someone to
work on it?** _At first this may sound counter intuitive, but really it's not
at all. After all, if I personally work on Open Source stuff, I may not be
paying cash, but I am certainly paying with my time. It's just that I choose
to make the fruits of my labor freely available to anyone who wants it. **I
see no contradiction.**

>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  _How the heck does a small shop like mine get offshore development going?_
This is actually quite cool. It turns out that there are **several online
'markets'** where I can post a functional spec or project description and
**receive quotes** from contractors who want to take on the project.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> I have been extremely impressed with the quality of people that bid. How do
I find out? Well there's always a bit of back and forth on email while you are
considering a bid proposal. By the questions that they ask as well as the
answers they give to your questions, it's usually pretty clear who's good and
who is not.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> My favorites of these markets are [Rent-a-
Coder](<http://www.rentacoder.com/RentACoder/default.asp>) for development and
[Elance](<http://www.elance.com>) for design. I've used both to good success.
But there are some others that I am experimenting with, that might be worth a
look if you are interested: [Scriptlance.com](<http://www.scriptlance.com>),[
TheCentralMall](<http://www.TheCentralMall.com>) and [Assembla
Talent](<http://talent.assembla.com>).

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> If you are a tiny organization or even not so tiny, it's an avenue worth
looking into.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>>  


