---
title: "BlogBridge Podcasting?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-10-06
---

**Link: [BlogBridge Podcasting?](None):** ""


>>

>> There's a site called [IT Conversations](<http://www.itconversations.com/>)
that has a collection of interviews, recorded on mp3s with some very
interesting people. Also included are lectures, debates and panels. It is an
excellent site, **I recommend it.**

>>

>> For a while now, I've been, **manually** , downloading those onto my PC and
transferring them to my iPod for listening while I work out. Very **useful**
and very **manual**.

>>

>> It turns out that there's a new term floating around, **PodCasting** , that
describes the 21st century version of what I've been doing. Conceptually, you
pick the interviews you are interested in from a list, and they get
automatically get downloaded to your iPod. [Here is a good introduction to
PodCasting.](<http://www.engadget.com/entry/5843952395227141/>)

>>

>> From a technical viewpoint what's interesting is that people are using RSS
and enclosures to integrate this into the world of Blogs. That is, there are
some rss feeds, which are all enclosures, which are specifically designed to
be handled by a special kind of reader that presents a list to the user, let's
them pick the recordings they want and then in background, download them to
the pc and then onto the attached iPod.

>>

>> **This will be a[BlogBridge ](<http://www.blogbridge.com>)feature in the
not too distant future.**

>>

>> Here's how it will work. There will be a kind of Channel called a PodCaster
Channel. It will be similar to a blog or other feed channel, with two
exceptions.

>>

>>   1. The article list will be formatted a little bit different and in
particular will provide for a checkbox with each article.

>>   2. There will be a background process which will initiate the background
download and transfer to the iPod.

>>

>>

>> (Of course, with the requisite setup, config and customization stuff.) **I
think it will be quite useful!**


