---
title: "Lightbulb about Podcasting (“Some stuff I just figured out”)"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-12-18
---


>>

>> I attended a Podcasting meeting at [Berkman
](<http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/home/>)a [couple of days ago
](<http://archive.scripting.com/2004/12/13#When:9:43:04AM>)(see ["The Berkman
Choir" ](<http://static2.podcatch.com/blogs/gems/snedit/berkmanChoir.mp3>)for
some silliness) and came back, as often happens, with a **new insight**. Here
it is, and if it seems **obvious** to you, that would be **my failing**. (And
if you have no idea what I am talking about, well, just move on!) You will see
some themes that I've mentioned before, but elaborated in some new ways.

>>

>> The technology for blogging and Podcasting isn't that complicated or new.
It's really stuff that's been around put together in new ways, but really, to
an engineer, you'd get a _" is that all there is to it?."_

>>

>> But focusing on that **misses something important** - the accessibility or
simplicity to the user (both creator and consumer.) This key characteristic
has been **crucial** to the success of blogging and the eventual success of
Podcasting and video blogging, in this sense.

>>

>> By making 'publishing' (in the most general sense of the word) available to
anyone, this technology is exactly what has lowered the barriers and allowed
all kinds of people with something to say actually be able to say it _and
publish it_.

>>

>> Let me elaborate. Publishing in the most general sense includes publishing
of written content (newspapers, journals, magazines and books become blogs),
but also audio content (radio shows become podcasts) and video content (tv
programming become video blogs.)

>>

>> The technology is key in that development, on **three** fronts:

>>

>>   1. ease of use (allowing a anyone to write and article or produce a radio
show)

>>   2. distribution (allowing this stuff to be consumed by anyone, instantly,
around the globe)

>>   3. And ease of discovery (allowing someone who is interested to locate
this content.)

>>

>> With that ease, the theory goes, and **the practice shows** , an amazing
multiitude of people suddenly decide that they have something to say to the
other multitude of people who decide they want to follow what is being said.
**Synergy**!


