---
title: "Search Innovations (Demo 2004 Series"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-02-25
---

**Search Innovations (Demo 2004 Series - 2) - **Two interesting Seach products
were showcased: [Grokker 2 from
Groxis](<http://www.groxis.com/service/grok/index.html>) and [p-Zoom from Big
On The Net](<http://www.bigonthenet.com/news/press20040216.htm>). They were
both **variations** of a **similar** idea, with very different **visual**
interfaces.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> The **core** idea is to take the **results of a search** engine of some
kind, and **cluster and organize** them to make them more understandable. Not
a new idea, and in fact, there have been several products who have done this,
none of which I can remember right off. Both Grokker and p-Zoom **seem to work
but in my view they don 't do enough** in an effective enough way to be worth
recommending.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> In fact let me again my all-time favorite search utility, [X-1 from
IdeaLab](<http://www.x1.com/>). Now that's a **beautifully executed** , and
**supremely useful** search utility. It focuses more on searching of what's in
my own world (files, emails, etc.) which Groxis does but p-Zoom does not.  **I
recommend it highly**.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> Two more **editorial** comments.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> **Grokker** has a visually **very pretty user interface** employing a
graphical device which we started calling the "**circles-inside-other-
circles** " UI which I believe they invented. The interesting thing is that
there were two other totally different products which seemed to have copied
the idea and were using a very similar visual device.

>>

>>  
>
>>

>> Secondly, the **notion of searching what 's in my personal space** - files,
emails, contacts, appointments, etc. (which both X1 and Grokker do) is an
**amazingly useful capability** which certainly belongs in the operating
system. And Microsoft has on several occasions incorporated this into Windows.
In fact it seems like there's some elaborate technology for search built into
Windows XP. But for some reason it's one of those things (like
**[Collaboration](<http://www.eroom.com>)**) which Microsoft **just never gets
right**. I wonder why.


* **Link to site:** **[Search Innovations (Demo 2004 Series](None)**
