---
title: "Musings on Open Source licensing"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-05-28
---


>>

>> As I continue to make rapid progress on
[BlogBridge](<http://www.blogbridge.com/>), now with a significant amount of
help, I am asking myself some tricky questions about licensing, which I
thought I'd try out here. (By the way, BlogBridge is the blog reader that I've
been working on and which is soon going to be available in beta form.)

>>

>> BlogBridge is an [open source
application](<http://opensource.org/docs/definition.php>). The source code is
all available on [www.sourceforge.net
](<https://sourceforge.net/projects/blogbridge/>)for any and all to look at
and play with. It's open source also because of the license that you'll see in
each source file, the so-called "[Lesser
GPL](<http://opensource.org/licenses/lgpl-license.php>)." I would like to say
that I chose that one after long and careful thought, but the truth is that I
picked it more or less randomly because another project that I am contributing
to was using it.

>>

>> Now that BlogBridge is going to get some more visibility, the question is,
**what rights exactly do I want to give away and which ones do I want to keep
for myself?**

>>

>> My current answers are:

>>

>>   * I want it to be legitimately 'Open Source'

>>   * I want anyone to be able to look at the source code and play with it,
for personal purposes and limited commercial purposes.

>>   * I want to reserve to myself the right to license or sell BlogBridge to
a commercial entity for commercial purposes.

>>   * I want to reserve to myself the rights of invention and origination and
patent.

>>

>>

>> Ok, let's refine that.

>>

>> What are **commercial purposes** and what are **limited commercial
purposes**? I guess in a vague sense I would like individuals to do whatever
they like with it but if IBM or Microsoft wants it they have to deal with me
(phat chance!)

>>

>> So here are some **questions that I am trying to answer** , in that
context:

>>

>>   * Given that all the source is already out there, what are the
considerations around changing the license. If I just edit all the files with
a new license and post it out on the SourceForge server, is that kosher? And
does it do the trick?

>>   * Is there a legitimate Open Source license that exists or that has been
tested or that I can create, which achieves what I outlined above?

>>

>>

>> Looking for advice. I will post further musings on this as I make progress.


