---
title: "Adam Bosworth on KISS"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-11-29
---


>>

>> [Adam Bosworth's
speech](<http://www.adambosworth.net/archives/000031.html>)

>>

>> Adam Bosworth's an interesting guy, and very smart, and has been deeply
involved in web services and many related technologies for years. He really
knows this stuff. And it's interesting, because one of the key Web Services
technologies is SOAP, a loosely coupled, "webbish" way of doing remote
procedure calls.

>>

>> [ **Aside #1** : If you feel your eyelids getting heavy around now, I
appologize for not labeling this entry as "GEEK" but I thought it was border
line]

>>

>> [ **Aside #2** : I wonder whether the term "Web Services" is now dated, and
what the more au courant term is. Perhaps "service oriented architecture". If
so, please accept my appologies for not being fully PC]

>>

>> [ **Aside #3** : I see that Aside #1 and #2 are both appologies. I should
have labeled them Applogogy #1 and #2. I appologize.]

>>

>> Anyway, if you've followed SOAP and the related and simpler standard known
as XML-RPC you will have noticed a big difference, particularly in the degree
of complexity in each scheme. And by the way, SOAP has spawned a whole series
of related formats or standards, one more complicated than the one before it.

>>

>> Anyway, Adam Bosworth, closely connected to the origins of SOAP, [in this
speech gives an
](<http://www.adambosworth.net/archives/000031.html>)empassioned plea for what
we know as the "KISS" principle. Where I went to school, KISS stood for "Keep
it Simple Stupid" (yes, I didn't get out much ðŸ™‚ but Adam Bosworth uses to mean
Keep it Simple and Sloppy.

>>

>> This argument about how simple is too simple is an important (and not new)
one in our field. [Adam Bosworth's
article](<http://www.adambosworth.net/archives/000031.html>) is a good piece
because it collects together many of the traditional points as well as clever
phrases which are used in this debate which we see in our field in many
different guises, and it makes you think.

>>

>> I don't have the answer or really a clear opinion. You can rattle off
standards / protocols / formats / languages which are easy to understand (for
example [RSS 2.0](<http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss>)) and explain and
those which are thoroughly inscrutable and confusing (for example [XML
Encryption](<http://www.w3.org/TR/xmlenc-core/>).)

>>

>> I could cite a dozen **other examples** , but I won't.

>>

>> When I say I don't really have an answer or clear opinion, here's the
reason.

>>

>> When I read something like the XML Encryption standard, I get totally lost.
My default conclusion is that it's just over my head, and whoever designed it
understood the the subject matter better than I, and I just am thankful for
good libraries to call. But on the other hand, I have seen plenty of examples
of totally overengineered systems and architectures to know that unnecessary
complexity is definitely a disease that inflicts us in this field.

>>

>> So I am not ready to say one way or the other that simpler is always
better, or that one approach (for example SOAP) is clearly inferior to another
one (for example XML-RPC.) [Adam Bosworth's
piece](<http://www.adambosworth.net/archives/000031.html>) won't answer this
question, but it is thought provoking (as you can see, because it provoked me
to write this little piece)


* **Link to site:** **[Adam Bosworth on KISS](None)**
