---
title: "Mac OSX not easy to use!"
author: Pito Salas


date: 2004-07-22T13:38:45
---


>>

>> Years ago I was a hardcore Mac fanatic. I was one of the creators of a
long-gone early Macintosh application called Jazz. I programmed on a Lisa in
68000 assembly language. As I said, a long time ago ðŸ™‚

>>

>> Anyway, for years I've been a PC guy, but still with a warm spot in my
heart for Mac. Recently we got an iBook in our family and so I had a chance to
reaquaint myself with how the world had changed.

>>

>> After hearing disparaging remarks from Mac folks about Windows XP lack of
usability and elegance I was all set to be blown away by OSX. Here some first
impressions.

>>

>>   * Yes indeed, OSX is beautiful to look at. It wows you with some nifty
and novel animations. The level of design, colors, icons, etc. is all really
enjoyable to look at.

>>   * OSX has a little Unix heart beating inside it. This means it's nirvana
for Unix folks. But to the average joe it also means something: stability. It
has yet to crash on me.

>>   * I can't believe that it still has only a single button mouse. And it's
funny because you can see how OSX gradually is inching towards giving in on
this little bit of obsolete religion. If you plug a 2 button mouse into the
USB port, it works like a charm. And the scroll wheel works. And some
applications even put up a context menu. But because Mac is conflicted about
this, this is not nearly consistent and pervasive enough.

>>   * Gluing the menu bar to the top of the screen an antiquated holdover
from when screens were tiny and there was no multi-tasking (even the term
multi-tasking sounds quaint given that everyone does it.) The result is that
it's often not obvious what application you are in.

>>   * And while the dialog boxes are pretty, they are not necessarily well
designed. One trivial example: if you are setting up your airport, and you
have enabled security (like everyone does) then it is not explained anywhere
that you must precede the hex password with a dollar sign to get it to work.
Another trivial one: in more than one place I was 4 steps down a 'wizard' when
I decided to quit out of it, except there was no Cancel button. I had to
'back-back-back' to get back to the start.

>>

>> Anyway there you have it. I think with this experience I would debate the
Mac user's claim that Mac is inherently easier to use than WInXP. First of
all, it's more similar than different and second of all, it's not all good.


