---
title: "Jon Udell on Bloglines"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-07-26
---



[Jon (and many others) really like Bloglines a lot; I recommend his article -
there's a lot to learn
there.](<http://weblog.infoworld.com/udell/2004/07/25.html>)

>>

>> I want to address just one point, which is Jon's prediction of the coming
world domination by web apps. There's an interesting **paradox** ,
**inconsistency** or **contradiction** here, if you look at the following
qoutes from his piece:

>>

>>   * "Web applications such as Gmail and Bloglines are already hard to beat.
With a touch of alchemy they just might become **unstoppable**. "

>>   * "â€¦ that Bloglines, like Zope, handles foldering about as well as you
can in a Web UI -- which is to say, **well enough**. With an intelligent local
cache it could be really good; more on that later."

>>   * "Finally, I'd love it if Bloglines cached everything in a local
database, not only for offline reading but also to make the **UI more
responsive** and to accelerate queries that reach back into the archive."

>>

>> Is there a way to have our **cake and eat it too**? Is it possible to have
the user experience of a real application with the universal access of a web
application?

>>

>> That's the **BlogBridge experiment** : a total inversion of the Web
Application scheme. BlogBridge has a thick client (Java based) with the local
cache and the flashy responsive UI and offline operation.

>>

>> And we are about to launch the **BlogBridge Service** which is a Web
Service (XML-RPC) allowing BlogBridge to synchronize both your feeds and
folders as well as their unread status periodically.

>>

>> In other words, you run the BlogBridge application and **periodically** it
talks to the service (behind the scenes) and uploads your latest feeds,
folders and unread state. If you run BlogBridge somewhere else, you BlogBridge
talks to the service and grabs your latest info and you **continue where you
left off**.

>>

>> What do you think?


