---
title: "Spain Security Situation"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-04-29 15:35:43
---

>>

>> Several people asked me about what the security situation in Spain felt
like. I have to admit it did give me pause to be going to Spain little more
than a month after the terrorist attack on the trains in Madrid. In fact our
travel plans included several long train rides. I checked with friends who
live in Spain, and also looked at the various State Department notices, and
all in all decided that the risk wouldn't be major. I did expect to see a
major security presence -- you know, soldiers with machine guns in the
airports, etc. But otherwise I wasn't especially worried, but curious what
we'd find. I remember how shell shocked we were in the U.S. two months after
9/11.

>>

>> Well, here's the surprising thing. There was almost no noticable security
presence or sense of mourning, danger, worry. At the airports there was no
more than the usual security presence. At the railstations there was nothing
noticable. Nothing at all.

>>

>> In the high velocity train, you had to check in and go through a metal
detector like at an airport, but again very casual. At the main Madrid rail
station there was again nothing noticable.

>>

>> In each city we stayed in hotels located right on some central plaza. The
Spanish love to hang out! In Madrid, in the Puerto Del Sol area, at 10 and 11
at night, on a week days, there were throngs of people, walking around, or
sitting in cafes drinking beers or coffee, and having a good time. Like Time
Square in New York.

>>

>> I was pleasantly surprised. Friends here that hear that story are amazed.


