---
title: "Heard of GMail?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-12-14
---
# [Heard of GMail?](None)



>>

>> There are many interesting things about
[GMail](<http://gmail.google.com/gmail>), so this is either going to be a long
post or one of a series. First things first: **GMail is now my primary email
provider**. Yes, you heard that right. It's free, does a great job with spam
and I can continue to use Outlook. Life is good.

>>

>> First of all, what is GMail (for those of you who have been living under a
rock!) GMail is Google's free, web based, email service. Its major claim to
fame, at least initially, was the **1 Gig of free Mail** storage they provide.
Kind of amazing isn't it? When it first came out, that got all the attention.
In fact it seems to have forced Hotmail and Yahoo mail to increase the amount
of free storage they provide. I don't believe that they are up to 1 Gig
though.

>>

>> But that's not what attracted me. My issue was **spam**. I was running on a
private mail server which didn't have a spam filter. Instead, I ran Matador's
Mail Front, which is a very effective **client** solution. But what you really
want is a server side solution. In my case, the reason was that I also
**download email** to my Treo phone, directly from the server, and hence, no
spam filter: phone is flooded with junk mail.

>>

>> So as an experiment, I redirected all my email to my GMail account, and
then used GMail's new free POP service, to pull that email into Outlook as
well as into the phone. **Sweet**!

>>

>> GMail, with no training, was catching spam with what feels like **99%**
accuracy. Other than that, my Outlook experience is unchanged, and my Treo
phone based email is much much better (no spam.) _I recommend it._

>>

>> Interesting questions to ponder: How can they afford to give me all this
service for free? What might their long term stragegy be? Whats the story with
the GMail invites and how do you get one?


