---
title: "Coding as Writing"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2004-12-19 19:57:50
---

>>

>> If you read this blog at all, you know that I've been working on a piece of
software ([BlogBridge](<http://www.blogbridge.com>)) which at this point I am
pretty excited about, even though I don't know where it will go or end up.

>>

>> I was recently interviewed about my work by [Scott
Kirsner](<http://www.boston.com/business/technology/kirsner/>) (of the Boston
Globe) who writes the [@Large
Column](<http://www.boston.com/business/technology/kirsner/>). I don't know
whether or when he will write an article, but the questions he asked made me
think a bit about what I was doing, and particularlyy the way I have chosen to
go about it.

>>

>> I have purposely decided not to try and raise capital to fund this project,
but rather pursue a small-scale, cottage industry, do-it-yourself approach. As
a practicall matter, I am pretty sure that the project in its current form
wouldn't be venture backable anyway. But still I can rephrase the point by
saying that I have purposely decided not to limit myself to projects which are
venture backable.

>>

>> Why?

>>

>> I sometimes liken my personal approach or motivations towards the
BlogBridge project, to why one might decide to try and _write a book_. One
might have a burning desire to tell this story, and is willing to forsake a
conventional job to do it.

>>

>> While I don't know if I will be able to find a publisher or if the book
will sell, and I can be fairly sure, statistically, that it's not going to
make anyone rich. It's a labor of love, as it were.

>>

>> Beyond the psychic and creative payoff of doing this work, there are
indirect benefits. I am getting experience in important new areas for me, such
as blogging, but also working with talented developers in other countries,
learning about open source development, and of course hard-core java
engineering.) Each of these in one way or antoerh might lead to other business
opportunities or somehow help my consulting business.

>>

>> This is in stark contrast of course to raising $5M, hiring 20 people and
racing to a profitable growth business and a liquidity event.

>>

>> Who knows whether BlogBridge will actually make any money: that's not the
only or first reason I am doing this work. Different motivations, different
likely outcomes, and each approach applicable to some projects and not others.

>>

>> In this case, for **me** and for **this** project, this is the path that
I've chosen.


