---
title: "Switcher’s Log, Part 6: All is not honey and peaches in Mac OS X land"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-04-01
---

**Link: [Switcher’s Log, Part 6: All is not honey and peaches in Mac OS X land](None):** ""


>>

>> When things go wrong is when you start seeing some of the disadvantages of
being on the 5% pc platform. Help is hard to find, alternatives are non-
existent. Briefly here is the story:

>>

>> I tried a 'better' Palm synchronizer called[ "Missing
Sync"](<http://www.markspace.com/missingsync_palmos.php>) from
[Mark/Space](<http://www.markspace.com/>). After using it for a little bit I
decided it didn't really have too many advantages over the standard one, so I
uninstalled it. But… I uninstalled it "the wrong way." Who knew? Who knew that
there is a wrong way to uninstall on Mac?

>>

>> Anyway the result was that not only couldn't I continue using Missing Sync,
I couldn't even continue using the original Palm
[HotSynch](<http://www.palmone.com/us/support/hotsync.html>). It was exactly
like what might happen on Windows XP with a corrupted registry entry or a
wrong .DLLs. Every bit as bad.

>>

>>   * I looked for a "force uninstall" utility for OS X. **Can 't find one.**

>>

>>   * I tried to call Missing Sync for help. Do they even exist? I got no
response to email and phone calls for several days. Finally I got several,
totally off the **mark** responses.

>>

>>   * I tried to get help from Sprint (who sold me my Treo Palm phone) - who
knew exactly nothing about Macintosh.

>>

>>   * I tried getting help from Handspring who built the Treo, and again,
nobody home - they bounced me back to Sprint.

>>

>>   *

>>

>> Anyway, it was hopeless. Finally with the help of some Mac expert friends,
I went around deleting files and directories all over the place and was after
lots of (scary) trial and error able to get the thing back to life.

>>

>> So, the **lessons** are:

>>

>>   1. Uninstallation can be as **dangerous** as installation. Look for
instructions about the 'right' way to uninstall

>>

>>   2. Use the Mac market is so much **smaller** , expect much worse support
and don't feel bad when you get the **cold shoulder**

>>

>>   3. **OS X isn 't perfect**

>>

>>


