---
title: "Thinking about business models"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-10-28
---
# [Thinking about business models](None)



>>

>> [Inquisitor is a really cool](<http://www.inquisitorx.com/safari/>) program
that augments the search box in Safari (which for you **heathens** out there
is the default Mac OS X web browser.) It's kind of hard to explain just what
it does - it's kind of a magical word completion **thingie** that guesses,
based on other searches and **who knows what else** , what you are going to
search for.

>>

>> But I am not writing about Inquisitor, although **I recommend it highly**.
Here's a post by it's author, Dave, who is trying to figure out how or whether
he can make some money with his creation.

>>

>>> "Why am I considering pay-per-download? Well, one advantage is that it's
far easier to do than a full-blown registration system. While the levy is very
small, if everyone gives a little then everyone benefits. It seems more
equitable that way. Alas, it is true that there's no solid way to enforce the
levy. The software could be traded easily between friends or posted on an
unauthorized website. The former I view as a form of viral marketing and the
latter is traceable and can be dealt with as a clear-cut breach of license." (
**from** [David Watanabe's blog](<http://www.newsfirex.com/blog/?p=80>))

>>

>> The
[question](<http://www.blogbridge.com/archives/2005/10/whats_the_blogb.php>)
of **when** and **how** and how **much** to begin
[charging](<http://www.blogbridge.com/archives/2005/10/whats_the_blogb.php>)
users of [BlogBridge](<http://www.blogbridge.com/>) occupies me from time to
time. Our core objective right now is to get BlogBridge into everybody's hands
- everybody in our target market that is - so called
"[Infojunkies](<http://www.blogbridge.com/archives/2005/10/whats_an_info_j.php>)"
or
"[Professionals](<http://www.blogbridge.com/archives/2005/10/whats_an_info_j.php>)."
But this won't be forever. The beauty of a project such as this is that we can
be clever, innovative or at least experimental so all new and different ideas
are worth thinking about.

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [blogbridge](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/blogbridge>),
[businessmodel](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/businessmodel>)


