---
title: "[DEMO 2005] Top Demos"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-03-01
---

There's already so much written about Demo 2005, it seems like there's not
much to add.

>>

>> First off, let me recommend [Conferenza Premium
Reports](<http://www.conferenza.com/>). It's a very reasonably priced
subscription service that provides first hand reports of all the major and not
so major conferences. Shel Israel's report on Demo 2005 is comprehensive and
excellent.

>>

>> #### My list of top demos, extremely briefly

>>

>> A word about methodology. As I watched the 7 minute demos, I would write 2
or 3 bullets of what struck me, and a grade from A+ to F. Of the 60 or so
demos, these rated an A- or better.

>>

>>   * [**StreamBase - StreamBase
Systems**](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/streambase.html>). From
Michael Stonebreaker, one of great innovators in releational databases.
StreamBase is not a database at all. Instead of stored data, it's a server for
processing. mixing and matching, huge and voluminous streams of real time
data. Why hasn't anyone done this before?

>>   * [**My iControl - iControl
Networks.**](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/icontrol.html>) A plug
and play home automation network, based on wireless sensors and a box that
sits in your basement. The sensors include door opening, temperature, cameras,
and lots of others.  
> <li[> **NanoChromics Display - NTera
> LTd**](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/ntera.html>). A replacement
> for the good old conventional LCD display. Cheaper and brighter. Basic
> technology not something you would go out and buy.
>>   * [**Instant Scene Modeler -
MDA**](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/mda.html>) Very interesting:
handheld contraption with two cameras is used to 'film' a scene. Within
seconds the software creates a 3D digital model of the scene that you can look
at from all directions.

>>   * **[GiftWorks- Mission Research
Inc.](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/missionresearch.html>)**
Financial and fundraising management software for non profits. MS Money for
charities.

>>   * [**Ovation - Serious
Magic.**](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/seriousmagic.html>)
Converts PowerPoint presentations to broadcast TV quality animated slides.

>>   * [**Tricaster -
NewTek.**](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/newtek.html>) From the
guys who did Video Toaster. A video production truck in a box. Hardware and
software. $5,000.

>>   * [**In the Chair - Digital
Monkey**](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/digitalmonkey.html>).
Unusual and very cool music education software. Lets a soloist read music and
play their instrument while on the screen they follow the score, see a live
conductor and the rest of the orchestra follow along while giving audio cues.

>>   * **[QuickSite- Homestead
Technologies.](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/homesteadtechnologies.html>)**
Web site design and hosting service from Homestead. The new twist is that they
offer a huge collection of professionally designed sites for $200 each.

>>   * [**Demandware Ecommerce Platform -
Demandware.**](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/demandware.html>)
Basically ATG Ecommerce software packaged as an ASP service. Excellent.

>>   * **[Real Basic- Real
Software.**](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/realsoftware.html>) A VB
knockoff, which runs on Windows, Mac and Linux. Looks complete and powerful.

>>   * **[Xcelcius-
Infomersion](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/infommersion.html>)** .
Create direct manipulation graphical models with graphs and controls, using an
Excel spreadsheet as the underlying model.

>>   * [**LiveVault - LiveVault
Corporation.**](<http://www.demo.com/demo2/demonstrators/livevault.html>) Just
Backup and offsite recovery. But beautifully implemented via an on-site
appliance which includes lots of storage, plus an offsite service, all of them
very nicely integrated.

>>

>> Those are my picks!


[[DEMO 2005] Top Demos](None)
