---
title: "I love Microsoft too, but I can’t hold my tongue"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-03-06
---



[Dave Winer](<http://archive.scripting.com/2005/03/06#When:2:29:16AM>) points
to [Kevin Shofield's defense
](<http://radio.weblogs.com/0133184/2005/03/05.html#a282>)of an "unfair,
[infamous post saying that Microsoft](<http://mark-
lucovsky.blogspot.com/2005/02/shipping-software.html>) can't ship software
anymore." [Scoble links to the
thread](<http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2005/03/06.html#a9550>), without
comment (which is understandable, not wanting to be too partisan.) [In my
opinion, and agreeing with Kevin](</weblogs/archives/000475.html>), Microsoft
actually shows an **absolutely amazing** ability to develop, test, and deliver
software of mind boggling complexity to a huge user base. They run
unbelievably large scale beta tests, they support remarkable variety of
hardware and software configurations, being run by every possible kind of
customer, geography and user. IMHO there is _no other organization on the
planet_ that has this capability. **Ok?** But **I have to take issue, in a big
way** , with this claim in Kevin's post: **" Other Microsoft products, like
Money and Encarta, ship on an annual basis and hit those deadlines like
clockwork."** As many users of Microsoft Money will attest, the annual,
clockwork releases **are a farce** to extract more cash out of people ([like
me](</weblogs/archives/000549.html>)) who fall into the trap of buying the
upgrade.  Why do I keep falling into that trap myself? I really rely on
Microsoft Money. I run my life on it. After receiving enough reminders that
there's a new version out with bug fixes and new features I finally decide to
go for it, and almost always regret it. It's called _the triumph of hope over
experience_ … Invariably there are very minor feature improvements, and often
new horrible, data corrupting bugs. [ It's shameful.
](</weblogs/archives/000549.html>) I bet the Microsoft Money team is tiny,
which is why it is the most profitable, percentage wise, product Microsoft
has.


