---
title: "Learning from others â€“ Making choices"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-02-03
---



[Dave Winer makes a
point](<http://archive.scripting.com/2005/02/03#When:7:09:19AM>) which I
**totally** agree with: it is **important** to **learn** from what has come
**before** - or more more provocatively - to steal good ideas wherever you can
find them. And **secondly** that the only way to do that is to make it a point
of being very familiar with other products, other approaches. As a designer of
software I certainly **believe in that**. In fact,I have **lived** that over
and over again: [Improv](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lotus_Improv>) learned
from 1-2-3, [eRoom](<http://www.documentum.com/eroom/>) learned from Lotus
Notes, etc. And similarly, [BlogBridge](<http://www.blogbridge.com>) has
begged, borrowed and stolen from all sorts of other applications, including
NetFlix, Del.icio.us, Wiki's, numerous email clients and on and on. And not by
accident but by conciously studying what others have done. That said, there
are certain design choices which you can't straddle: they are fundamental -
you have to pick. To bring it home with an example, many people far prefer web
based aggregators (like [Bloglines](<http://www.bloglines.com/>)) over client
based aggregators (like BlogBridge.) Each brings their advantages and will
appeal to a certain subset of users, and this is **important** : they will be
a turn-off for another subset of users. As a designer you have to **make such
choices** while knowing that you will **alienate** some of the users you would
hope to get, but **counting** on the fact that there is enough **diversity**
in taste and work style to allow more than one model succeed.


