---
title: "Big Search, Mechanical Turk and why Amazon is at least as cool as Google"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-11-27
---

**Link: [Big Search, Mechanical Turk and why Amazon is at least as cool as Google](None):** ""


>>

>> [Adam Green](<http://darwinianweb.com/archive/2005/1127.html#9:31AM>)
points to Scoble who re-discover and discover, respectively, Amazon's street
by street, address by address, photographic coverage of the map of, **what,
the universe**? It's a neat new user interface of something [they've had for a
while](</weblogs/archives/000571.php>), actually, but still, quite cool!

>>

>> some nuggets:

>>

>>> "Will I use it? Hell, yeah, it is damn useful. I can point you to Border
Cafe in Harvard Square, which just happens to be one of the best college
student dives in the country." ( **from** [Darwinian
Web](<http://darwinianweb.com/archive/2005/1127.html#9:31AM>), Adam's new
blog)

>>

>> and…

>>

>>> "But, if you need to know what a store looks like before going there,
Amazon is definitely something you should check out." ( **from**
[Scobelizer](<http://scobleizer.wordpress.com/2005/11/26/amazon-maps-have-
block-by-block-views/>))

>>

>> and…

>>

>>> "Is your house on their map? It's pretty creepy to have pictures of your
neighborhood on line. Intellectually, it makes perfect sense, but it still
creeps me out." ( **from a comment** to [Scoble's
post](<http://scobleizer.wordpress.com/2005/11/26/amazon-maps-have-block-by-
block-views/>))

>>

>> and finally…

>>

>>> "Unfortunately, the image defaults to the side of the street with
Starbucks. You'll have to click the film strip for the opposite side of Church
Street." (again **from** [Darwinian
Web](<http://darwinianweb.com/archive/2005/1127.html#9:31AM>))

>>

>> Which brings up [Mechanical Turk](<http://www.mturk.com/mturk/welcome>),
the new, totally clever Amazon service which some have written about but
somehow seem to have [escaped Scoble's all-seeing-
eye](</weblogs/archives/000571.php>).

>>

>> So [what is Mechanical
Turk](<http://www.mturk.com/mturk/help?helpPage=main>) (see [this for the
origin of the name](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mechanical_Turk>))? It's an
Amazon service generates solutions to little problems or tasks which are
trivial for humans and impossible for computers (exaggerating a **little**
here.) What kinds of problems are these? Oh say choosing what photograph best
represents the storefront of the Border Cafe!

>>

>> What I **imagine** is this: Amazon has outsourced a bunch of SUVs equipped
with digital cameras and a GPS to drive up and down all streets in the US. The
cameras automatically snap picture after picture, each encoded with the
current lat long. Using maps and directories each address will match several
pictures. The remaining problem is to select the best one to represent the
storefront. A very menial task, but one that requires a person.

>>

>> **Enter** Mechanical Turk. Anyone with an Amazon account can sign up and
request to 'complete simple tasks that people do better than computers, and
get paid for it." I tried this and was presented with sets of 3 to 6 photos.
**My job** : decide which one most looks like the front door of say, Ernie's
Body Shop, 1234 Main Hyway, Maine. I think each task paid something like 3 or
5 cents. Clever, eh?

>>

>> Even cooler, Amazon **chose to build** this as a totally **general**
mechanism, [with APIs for both sides of the
transaction](<http://www.amazon.com/gp/browse.html/ref=sc_fe_l_2_3435361_4/103-7273412-8615809?%5Fencoding=UTF8&node=15879911&no=3435361&me=A36L942TSJ2AJA>).
API's to define tasks, check results, qualify workers etc.. And APIs to work
on problems and suggest solutions. Pure genius!

>>

>> So, let's say I have a task like, answer the question: "Is this web page a
blog or not?" (a question that might be of interest to BlogBridge) I could:

>>

>>   1. Create a list of URLs that I want to check out

>>

>>   2. Add them to Mechanical Turk as projects

>>

>>   3. Seek out only workers who could show that they knew what a blog is (by
submitting to some test questions)

>>

>>   4. Decide how much I wanted to spend

>>

>>   5. And turn the problem loose on people around the globe.

>>

>>

>>

>> You know everyone always
[fawning](<http://www.pbs.org/cringely/pulpit/pulpit20051117.html>) over
Google. Don't get me wrong, I think Google is great and I've done my own share
of fawning.

>>

>> However, in my book, Amazon is the **unsung hero** in the new Web 2.0
world. They are **every bit as innovative** and cool as Google, and **they do
it while** somehow inventorying and delivering **gazillions** of books and
other products around the globe.


