---
title: "Attention.xml"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-03-29 18:48:08
---

>>

>> [Steve Gilmor muses](<http://blogs.zdnet.com/Gillmor/index.php?p=74>) about
the history of the Attention.xml spec in his
[blog](<http://blogs.zdnet.com/Gillmor/>). Steve thought up [Atttention.
xml](<http://developers.technorati.com/wiki/attentionxml>) as way to capture
what feeds and items people do and don't spend time (their attention) on,
collecting, aggregating and then mining this information for all kinds of
purposes. (This is my interpretation, but I think it's pretty accurate.)

>>

>> [BlogBridge](<http://www.blogbridge.com> "BlogBridge") is a feed reader
with a **primary goal** to save the reader's time by collecting and using any
information possible to help the user focus on what will be useful to them and
ignoring the rest. So there's an excellent alignment between BlogBridge's
goals and what Steve is trying to accomplish with Attention.xml. **BlogBridge
will support attention.xml.**

>>

>> The section in [Steve's post
](<http://blogs.zdnet.com/Gillmor/index.php?p=74>)that is particularly
interesting to me (and to BlogBridge) are his ideas on how to use Attention
information to triage information being displayed in a feed reader - basically
an outline of the kind of heuristics that might be used. It's a long section
(in the second half of the post), so I won't quote it, but here's the
tantalizing beginning:

>>

>>> _" Why is this so important, at least to me? Because RSS is about time,
and the data about lack of interest is intensely valuable to me as an
indicator of what can be thrown out or pushed down the priority stack. As RSS
takes hold, we are moving rapidly to a multiplicity of valuable content, where
throwing out duplicates, redundancies, and repetitive analyses is key to
providing enough of a window for absorbing the much greater signal-to-noise of
the attention stream."_

>>

>> If you are interested in this topic, I really recommend that you read
Steve's whole post.


