---
title: "Business opportunities in blogville?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-07-01
---

**Link: [Business opportunities in blogville?](None):** ""

All software has bugs, no doubt. So pulling out one story to make a point
isn't really fair. (Especially recalling the story about **stones** and
**glass houses**.)  But if I looked I know I could find **story after story**
, including some that I could write from first hand experience, about the
**terrible rough edges** on all the software on which our much beloved
blogosphere runs. And from that observation and those stories comes the
premise of this post. Here's one of the stories:

>>

>>> "It all started two weeks ago when I undertook the **" drop-in"** upgrade
from Movable Type 3.14 to 3.17. Well, "drop-in" is not really the word. I had
made some changes to my server configuration that I thought should not affect
Movable Type and, in fact, did not for version 3.14.  However, because of a
**change in an open** source library component that is a dependency for
Movable Type 3.17, my configuration **broke** Movable Type 3.17. As a result,
Movable Type was not properly **pinging** the technorati **server** to put my
tagged links in their tag repositories. There were **other smaller** and
larger issues that I independently tracked to this same dependency." (**from**
"The [Community Engine
Blog](<http://thecommunityengine.com/home/archives/2005/06/distributed_tag.html>),
Distributed Tagging Hell", **emphases added**.)

>>

>> From my observation of this and many other stories, there is **no blog
server or service** out there that I would call **_commercial grade_**. I
don't see evidence that the current incumbents are going to deliver what is
required. Here are some of the requirements for that, as I see them:

>>

>>   * Installs reliably on any supported server. Doesn't require
administrator to be a technical wizard. Once installed, stays installed.

>>   * Measures up to enterprise requirements in scalability and security.

>>   * Integrates with other enterprise infrastructure, particularly
databases, web servers, directories, access control and enablement.

>>   * Is self evident to the end users, requiring minimal IT support during
initial deployment and longer term adoption.

>>

My **bet** is that with the growing prominence and publicity around blogging,
around now is a good time to start a business to build just that. And let's
**not get clever** about this… It's got to be **recognizably** a blog server,
not some **crazy adaptation** of an existing product that gets the word "blog"
**slapped** onto it. And on the other hand, not some **wild hybrid** of blog,
wiki, and knowledge management. Just a really **great, industrial strength,
blogging system**. I am **convinced** that such a beast would make money and
that the time is finally ripe for it.  What is much less clear is whether it
is sufficient to start a business. You know what they say: "Is it a business
or just a product?" … "Is it a product or just a feature?" I think I will
write more about this. Technorati Tags:
[blog](<http://technorati.com/tag/blog>),
[commecialsoftware](<http://technorati.com/tag/commecialsoftware>),
[money](<http://technorati.com/tag/money>),
[vc](<http://technorati.com/tag/vc>)


