---
title: "American Idol Existentialism"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-04-15
---

For you closet viewers of American Idol ([the TV
Show](<http://idolonfox.com/>)), I thought you'd be amused by this new [TV
blog](<http://www.tvsquad.com/>), and it's
[discussion](<http://www.tvsquad.com/2005/04/13/american-idol-i-finally-had-
to-vote> "discussion") of some of the latest developments on that show. If you
don't know the show, let me briefly tell you about one aspect, the **voting
model** , which has raised some interesting questions.  **Here 's how the
voting works**. Every week a set of contestants perform some song, and at the
end "America" gets to vote on which one they **liked best.** Whoever wins the
fewest votes that week is booted off and the following week the remaining
contestants do it all over again. It has happened more than once that a
contestant is **booted off,** who everyone agrees is among the **best**. And
there's an outcry and wringing of hands about this - how could it happen? Is
it racism? The votes are stacked! Here's what I think may be an
**explanation** for **oddball** results on the polls.  When asked to vote for
our favorite, my tendency would be **NOT** to vote for someone that I think is
THE BEST, on the theory that they will get lots of votes from others and hence
be **SAFE** anyway. **No** , I would vote for the one that I think is at
**risk** of being booted even though I think they are great, the **underdog**
, in other words.  If **everyone** did that, then it's possible that the one
that everyone thought was the **BEST** would actually get booted! American
Idol Existentialism!


* **Link to site:** **[American Idol Existentialism](None)**
