---
title: "Wiki as in Wikipedia"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-11-04T15:53:09
---


>>

>> I assume you know about [Wikis](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki>) and
the [Wikipedia](<http://www.wikipedia.org/>). If not,
[click](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia>) on the links to the left and
you'll both find out and experience it, in one fell swoop.

>>

>> On [BlogBridge](<http://www.blogbridge.com/>) we use a Wiki as a very
**lightweight** project collaboration tool. [Minimalist
eRoom](<http://www.documentum.com/eroom/>) if you like. That's the kind that
most often occurs to me.

>>

>> But if you **think** about Wikipedia articles work, they are actually meant
to **properly describe** or **define** something that **exists** and has a
**name**. In other words, they specifically are **meant** to be **objective**
and **timely**.

>>

>> I've worked at **more than** one company where we, the CEO, or whoever was
trying to **write down** , invent, or discover, for example, a company **value
statement** , or a company **strategy statement**. It's a **painful** process
on a lot of levels and when you are all done, it's **not even clear** that
you've **accomplished** anything.

>>

>> **What if** you pretended that you were writing an entry in Wikipedia, for
example of the company value statement. As a Wiki page, **anyone in the
organization** could read, write, correct, update, clarify and append to the
statement.

>>

>> It would be an **interesting experiment** if you could get it to work. If
you did, you might have a **better chance** of getting some kind of common
understanding and alignment, let alone buy in and agreement, than with other
more top-down approaches.

>>

>> [inspired by a talk at the [BlogOn
conference](<http://www.blogonevent.com/blogon2005/>), unfortunately, I can't
remember which one.]

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [blogon2005](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/blogon2005>)


