---
title: "Switcherâ€™s Log, Part 7: How can Apple be so brain dead about usability?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-04-05
---



Everyone says that the reason they like the Mac and OS X is that _it 's so
easy to use!_ I am **not so sure** that it's any easier to use than Windows
XP. Yes OS X has some snazzy user interface frills and it's quite easy to use.
But notwithstanding that some of these brain-dead UI decisions **bely the
reputation of unsurpassed usability** :

>>

>>   * **Where is the menu?** Even with two large screens attached to an OS X
system, the menu bar is always glued to the top edge of the main screen. So I
am looking at a little app running in the corner of my second display, and
it's menu is at the top of the other screen. Huh?

>>   * **What app is running?** How about this one: I can close all the
windows of an application, and it is still running, in fact it is the current
application. The only way I can tell is by looking at the menu bar at the top
of the main screen. Huh?

>>   * **Resizing windows:** The only way to resize most windows is by
dragging around the right bottom corner, which can be off the screen or
hidden. Oh and there is a kind of window that looks different (so called
"brushed metal") where are the edges are resize handles - like windows - but
there is no visual indication. Huh?

>>   * **Keyboard Shortcuts everywhere** Surprisingly there's a greater
reliance on keyboard shortcuts on OS X than I ever saw on Windows. There are
launchers to allow you to launch an app without looking for it on disk. Lots
of useful functionality is only exposed with Shift-this or control-that or
alt-the other thing. And then those wonderful little F-keys - a total of 16!
But there are no keys to go to the start of a line (Control-A) or the end
(Control-E). And no play, pause, etc. keys. Huh?


