---
title: "Switcherâ€™s Log, Part 4: So what software DO I use on Mac?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-02-12
---

This is a topic of continuing interest to people who hear that I switched.
Here are some general comments:

>>

>>   * To a first order approximation what allowed me to switch at all was
that I wasn't working on primarily Microsoft (C#, .NET, etc.) software, but
rather open sourc-y, java-y, unix-y stuff which found a natural home on Mac.

>>   * I've been able to find all but one of my major, daily use applications
on the mac. Either the Mac version of the same app, or an equivalent
counterpart. (The missing link? Microsoft Money.)

>>   * Speaking in sweeping generalizations, I think that Mac OS X
applications are prettier to look at, simpler and often simplistic compared to
their XP counterparts.

>>   * As far as the more optional, less mainstream applications -- the little
utilities -- many of them don't exist on Mac. For example Plaxo, SecondCopy,
GetAnagram - three of my favorites on XP. These omissions are not enough to
make me regret having moved.

Ok, now the list:

>>

>>   * _Applications I use every hour of every day:_**Mail, Addressbook and
iCal** , which together are supposed to replace **Outlook** , but don't quite.
Eclipse, which is essentially identical on Mac OS X. **BlogBridge** of course,
which is identical and wonderful on all platforms ðŸ™‚ **Safari** , replacing
**Internet Explorer and Maxthon** -- not quite as nice. **Adium** , replaces
and is nicer than **Tillion**.

>>   * _Applications which I use very often:_ **Photoshop, Dreamweaver,
iTunes, Skype** , which are identical on Mac OS X. **iPhoto** , replaces and
is almost identical to **Picasa**.

>>   * _OS X only applications which I use regularly:_**MarsEdit** , which is
the editor that I am using to write this post. **QuickSilver** , an app
launcher, and **Konfabulator** , a visual trinkets app.

>>   * _Windows XP applications which I really miss:_ **Plaxo, SecondCopy,
GetAnagram**


* **Link to site:** **[Switcherâ€™s Log, Part 4: So what software DO I use on Mac?](None)**
