---
title: "What if we all vote on the  truth, part 2"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-06-20
---


>>

>> I [wrote a few days](</weblogs/archives/000753.html>) ago about the coming
LA Times initiative to create something they are calling "Wikitorials." Well
[they've done
it,](<http://www2.latimesinteractive.com/wiki/index.php/Wikitorial>) and the
results are quite interesting:

>>

>> Someone going by the name Hank Ramey (a real name?) does a [complete
'rewrite' of the LA Times
Editorial](<http://www2.latimesinteractive.com/wiki/index.php/Dreams_About_War_and_Retribution_-
_Hank_Ramey%27s_rewrite>). A really provocative idea. However it's not at all
clear what was rewritten though, so the effort is kind of loss.

>>

>> For the more sophisticated Wiki user, a little digging reveals **highly
sophisticated** edit trails which let you see what changes were made by one
person or another. But as you can [see
here](<http://www2.latimesinteractive.com/wiki/index.php?title=Dreams_About_War_and_Retribution&diff=0&oldid=525>
"Dreams_About_War_and_Retribution&diff=0&oldid=525"), it's still hard to tell
what's going on, and who's opinion is where. Look **particularly at the times
of** each of these edits on the edit history and you can see several people
**pulling one way** or another. I am not sure how that will work over the
slightly longer term.

>>

>> [![Picture
1-3](https://i0.wp.com/s3.media.squarespace.com/production/1075723/12829350/weblogs/images/posts/wikitorials-
tm.jpg?resize=523%2C314)](<https://i0.wp.com/s3.media.squarespace.com/production/1075723/12829350/weblogs/images/posts/wikitorials.jpg>)

>>

>> There is also a
"[Discussions](<http://www2.latimesinteractive.com/wiki/index.php/Talk:Wikitorial>)"
area where readers can comment and discuss the Wikitorial page. You can see
near the bottom, a pretty thoughtful mini essay: "Editorials without
annotations are meaningless":

>>

>>> "When I see an editorial with no name attached, several questions about
the writer of the editorial pop into my mind before I ever consider the
content of the editorial. How old is she or he? What is the writer's
educational background including the amount of study of economics, science,
and the law, as opposed to literature, philosophy and culture."

>>

>> A very **interesting experiment** , for sure, and worth following. One
commenter correctly points out that there is a real risk that this wiki, like
many, will get _corrupted by vandals etc. (Written Saturday afternoon)_

>>

>> **Late breaking news (Sunday Night):** The Wikitorials have been taken down
by the LA Times:

>>

>>> "Where is the Wikitorial? Unfortunately, we have had to remove this
feature, at least temporarily, because a few readers were flooding the site
with inappropriate material. Thanks and apologies to the thousands of people
who logged on in the right spirit." (from [LA Times Wikitorial
Page](<http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/editorials/la-wiki-
splash,0,1349109.story>))

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [journalism](<http://technorati.com/tag/journalism>),
[wiki](<http://technorati.com/tag/wiki>),
[wikipedia](<http://technorati.com/tag/wikipedia>)


* **Link to site:** **[What if we all vote on the  truth, part 2](None)**
