---
title: "Blogging, Journalism and Credibility – Harvard"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-01-23
---

**Link: [Blogging, Journalism and Credibility – Harvard](None):** ""

I was lucky enough to be able to participate in a [conference on Blogging,
Journalism and Credibility](<http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/webcred/>) at
Harvard University. I am not myself an expert on this but found the
discussions extremely instructive. And of course I see possibilities that our
[BlogBridge software](<http://www.blogbridge.com>) might play a role in this
space in the future. So I am vitally interested! Many many people have blogged
in great detail on this conference, so I won't try to improve on that, except
for this great **little aha! tidbit** : All the discussion in one way or
another centered around the question of how blogging affect journalism and
journalism might affect blogging. Will blogging be the CB radio of the 2000's,
to be remembered as a curiosity of the times, gone and mostly forgotten? Or,
will blogging instead render MSM (_mainstream media_) obsolete, putting even
the **New York Times** out of business?  The NYT? They are an institution. We
all grew up with it. Everyone relies on it. They have a budget in the millions
and revenues to match. Putting the NYT out of business is an outlandish
exageration, that's what I think, and most of the room thought. So here was
the aha!: Remember the **Encyclopedia Britannica?** Hmm.  "They are an
institution. We all grew up with it. Everyone relies on it. They have a budget
in the millions and revenues to match." They weren't put away by blogs of
course, but arguably by the internet writ large, the internet phenomenon. It
_could_ happen.


