---
title: "RSS in the Academic/Research/Scientific community"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-07-26
---
# [RSS in the Academic/Research/Scientific community](None)



>>

>> I recently wondered out loud (on a couple of mailing lists) how much action
there is with RSS and Blogging within the Academic/Research/Scientific
community.

>>

>> The reason for that question was that I was considering that with those
folks **refereed, scholarly** articles are what counts which seems
diametrically opposite to the **casual, ad-hoc, first-person rants** that are
generally associated with blogging. (Ok I am just exaggerating to make a
point.)

>>

>> I learned that there's actually **lots and lots** going on with RSS and
Blogging in that world. Here are some interesting from a more or less random
collection of serious science and academic pubs all of which have RSS support
of some kind. This is, I am sure, **nowhere** near comprehensive, but it was
**eye opening** to me.,

>>

>>   * Generate RSS feeds for search alerts from databases hosted on
[EngineeringVillage2](<http://www.engineeringvillage2.org>)

>>

>>   * Generate RSS feeds for search alerts [from
ADS](<http://adswww.harvard.edu/index.html>) (astro and planetary science)

>>

>>   * [IEEE Computer
Society](<http://www.computer.org/portal/cms_docs_cs/csdl/jsp/rss/index.jsp?content=yes>)
(warning: if you're at an institution that uses Xplore -- the feed does not
link through to full text and you'll have to search)

>>

>>   * [EurekAlert! ](<http://www.eurekalert.org/rss.php>)(ok, only press
releases from Universities and research institutions, but still very much of
interest to practicing scientists and engineers)

>>

>>   * [Science](<http://www.sciencemag.org/rss/index.shtml>)

>>

>>   * [Acta Crystallographica](<http://journals.iucr.org/services/rss.html>)

>>

>>   * Lots of trade pubs like The Engineer, Small Times, New Scientist,
Advances in Electronics Manufacturing Technology have RSS feeds. Just google
their name with RSS

>>

>>   * Pubmed lets you create standing searches as RSS Feeds. [Here are the
instructions.](<http://www.nlm.nih.gov/pubs/techbull/mj05/mj05_rss.html>)

>>

>>   * [Association for Computing Machinery Queue
Magazine](<http://acmqueue.com/rss.rdf>)

>>

>>   * [IOP](<http://syndication.iop.org/index.cfm?site>)

>>

>>   * [APS](<http://feeds.aps.org/>)

>>

>>   * [ACS Nanofocus](<http://pubs.acs.org/cen/nanofocus/>)

>>

>>   * [Nature](<http://www.nature.com/nature/newsfeeds.html>)

>>

>>   * [BioMed Central](<http://www.biomedcentral.com/info/about/rss>)

>>

>>   * Also check out [Connotea](<http://www.connotea.org/>), a **de.icio.us**
like service focused on the scientific and academic community.

>>

>>   * Just look at [this
list](<http://library.usask.ca/ejournals/rss_feeds.php?letter=A>), it's
**awesome**!

>>

>>

>>

>> Pretty cool, eh?

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [RSS](<http://technorati.com/tag/RSS>),
[science](<http://technorati.com/tag/science>)


