---
title: "[BlogBridge Tip] New Weekly Build Available"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-02-08
---

**Link: [[BlogBridge Tip] New Weekly Build Available](None):** ""

We just put up a new weekly build of BlogBridge with many new features. Here
are some of the more interesting ones:

>>

>>   * **Community Fields.** Right click on a Feed, and choose Feed
Properties. Click on the community tab, where you will see our initial pair of
fields, Country and Tags. What's interesting is that whatever you set for
these two fields will be seen by all other users. If you know the country
where this feed originates you can set it. And if you feel like tagging
(classifying) this feed you can do it too.

>>   * **Discover Other Feeds**(on the Tools menu) is greatly enhanced (and
there is more to come!) First of all, some people are not sure what this
discovery business is about, so a quick intro. It's kind of one of the raisons
d'etre of BlogBridge - helping you discover other feeds that you might find
useful. There are several strategies, the first two which are available in
this release. In both cases BlogBridge will analyze articles in feeds, looking
for references to other feeds, on the assumption that if you like this feed,
chances are good that you'd be interested in feeds that this one refers to.
You can either analyze one particular feed, or all the feeds in a certain
guide.  The process runs in background. Whenever an interesting feed is
discovered, BlogBridge can either tell you proactively or simply add the
discovered feed to a list (Tools/Show Discovered Feedsâ€¦)

>>   * **Look and feel.** We've given the whole application some more polish,
especially on Mac OS X. The most visible change is in the toolbar and icons
available.

Those are only some of the enhancements that you will find in the latest
weekly release. Check it out! p.s. If you are not sure which one you are
running, you can refer to the title bar. You will either see ["BlogBridge
Weekly"](<http://www.blogbridge.com/install/weekly/blogbridge.jnlp>) or
["BlogBridge Beta"](<http://www.blogbridge.com/install/beta/blogbridge.jnlp>).
And if you click on the preceding two links you will get the corresponding
applications.


