---
title: "Come on over, the water’s fine! Look who is recommending Macs!"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-05-28
---

**Link: [Come on over, the water’s fine! Look who is recommending Macs!](None):** ""


>>

>> I love my **Mac** , as y'all know. I was amused to read about **Intel CEO**
**Paul Otellini** who publicly **recommended** getting a Mac. He was being
**interviewed** by **Walt Mossberg** at the "D" conference:

>>

>>> '… Asked whether a mainstream computer user in search of immediate safety
from security woes ought to buy a Mac instead of a Wintel PC, he said, "If you
want to fix it tomorrow, maybe you should **buy something else**.' ( **from**
[Mac News
Network](<http://www.macnn.com/articles/05/05/26/intel.chief.on.security/>),
but I saw it in several other places.)

>>

>> Meanwhile, in a related story, Dave Winer [sounds
like](<http://archive.scripting.com/2005/05/27#When:5:04:23PM>) he's tempted
to jump onto the Mac bandwagon. Come on over, the water's fine!

>>

>> For those who want to read more, here are some links to my experiences,

>>

>>   * [Switcher's Log](</weblogs/archives/000561.html> "Switcher's Log")

>>

>>   * [Do Mac users have eye problems - Switcher's Log - Part
2](</weblogs/archives/000566.html> "Do Mac users have eye problems -
Switcher's Log - Part 2")

>>

>>   * [Switcher's Log, Part 3: What I miss from my PC
Days](</weblogs/archives/000573.html> "Switcher's Log, Part 3: What I miss
from my PC Days")

>>

>>   * [Switcher's Log, Part 4: So what software DO I use on
Mac?](</weblogs/archives/000579.html> "Switcher's Log, Part 4: So what
software DO I use on Mac?")

>>

>>   * [Switcher's Log, Part 5: Man does this machine
scream.](</weblogs/archives/000598.html> "Switcher's Log, Part 5: Man does
this machine scream.")

>>

>>   * [Switcher's Log, Part 6: All is not honey and peaches in Mac OS X
land](</weblogs/archives/000617.html> "Switcher's Log, Part 6: All is not
honey and peaches in Mac OS X land")

>>

>>   * [Switcher's Log, Part 7: How can Apple be so brain dead about
usability?](</weblogs/archives/000622.html> "Switcher's Log, Part 7: How can
Apple be so brain dead about usability?")

>>

>>   * [Switcher's log, Part 8: In
conclusion…](</weblogs/archives/000624.html> "Switcher's log, Part 8: In
conclusion...")

>>

>>

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [mac](<http://technorati.com/tag/mac>),
[microsoft](<http://technorati.com/tag/microsoft>)


