---
title: "Switcherâ€™s log, Part 8: In conclusionâ€¦"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-04-06
---

**Link: [Switcherâ€™s log, Part 8: In conclusionâ€¦](None):** ""

**I love the fact that I switched to Mac.** A lot of the **fun** is that it's
**new** and **different**. Also I like the idea that there's **UNIX** beneath
the skin because I wanted to get more familiar with it. Also all the
applications are '**prettier** ' to look at and that's fun. Of course the
machine is **blindingly** fast but that's just because its so much newer than
the pc it replaced. It is clearly more stable than Windows XP. But, it's **not
all perfect** : It does **crash** sometimes, in mysterious ways. On Windows,
I'd be impressed (and **nervous**) after about 3 days of uptime. On Mac that
figure is more like 10 days. But stories about it staying up 6 months at a
**time don 't seem true**. Also I don't understand the internals nearly as
well so when some app misbehaves it's more mysterious to me. No cranking up of
**regedit** and so on. I am gradually picking up how this works, but I am a
long way behind where I was on Windows. The menu stuck to the top of the
primary monitor is still **ridiculous**. The fact that there are so many
keyboard shortcuts that you need to know to be efficient is silly. And that
you have this tiny resize corner control instead of being able to use all
edges to resize is also primitive. Net net - its a lot of fun, and **I am glad
I did it**. If I was doing different kind of work I might **think different**
ðŸ™‚ But I am **not** in the camp that says that OS X is simply superior to
Windows XP. I would say it's different, in a **good** way.


