---
title: "Four Hours on a Segway"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-01-14
---

I think the **Segway Human Transporter** is really cool, and I've read many
articles about how they work and what they are like. But this past weekend I
had the **unique experience** of spending about 4 hours riding around New
Orleans on a Segway. Eye Opening. Here are some (surprising) observations and
conclusions.

>>

>> It really **works**. It keeps you balanced, and once you get the hang of
it, it's quite easy to move forward, backwards, and turn. It takes about 10
minutes to be able to work it safely and then maybe another 30 to feel
proficient.

>>

>> The machine seems really **heavy** and powerful. Heavier than I thought.
Like a lawnmower heavy. While it doesn't move fast, it does have a lot of
power so that when it wants to move, it just moves.

>>

>> I also came away feeling that the various towns and cities that decided not
to certify them for sidewalk use, and instead treat them as motor vehicles
**were correct** , surprising myself!

>>

>> Yes, it's easy and **fun** , but you know what, it's also not that hard to
fall. A moment of distraction, and forgetting for an instant how to turn, and
you can be flat on your face. Or you can crash into a person. And as I said,
it's heavy.

>>

>> I am a great **admirer** of this machine, and I went into this experience
feeling that those townfolks that wouldn't allow us to scurryi around on our
Segways through central park just didn't get it. Well now I think they are
right.

>>

>> I have to imagine it was that way when **bicycles** were first
**invented**. (This is pure speculation, I have **no idea** of what actually
happened.)

>>

>> Yes it was a **marvelous** machine, apparently magical, riding on only two
wheels. And yes, it was quiet and elegant and everyone thought they should get
one. But I bet there was a p **eriod of 10 to 20** years when there were
restrictions on their use and special training and special places to ride
them.

>>

>> I would say that kids would have had to be raised being tought how to ride
them from parents, and that it really has to be internalized at an almost
subconcsious level. My bet is the **same** has to happen with things like the
**Segway**.


