---
title: "Pop!Tech Memes"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-10-25T20:13:43
---


>>

>> [Pop!Tech 2005](<http://www.poptech.org/>) was a great conference, again. I
made notes only when something struck me as interesting or memorable or
quotable, so this list of memes is very quirky just based on my in-the-moment
reactions!

>>

>>   * **" Barcode of Life"** - [Robert Hanner.
](<http://coriell.umdnj.edu/science/hanner.html>)My summary of this is that it
is a specific gene sequence that can be found across a very wide spectrum of
organisms, which has the characteristic that it is more or less the same in
individuals from a single species and very different in individuals from
different species. Such a sequence can be used to establish the borders
between species. See [Barcode of Life.](<http://www.barcodinglife.com/>)

>>

>>   * **" Buy something, and get not only the thing, but the factory with
which to build it." **[Robert
Hanner](<http://coriell.umdnj.edu/science/hanner.html>). A metaphor for
thinking about what makes life special - the thing can reproduce itself, hence
it also acts like a factory. His company is
[ProtoLife](<http://www.protolife.net/company/profile.php>).

>>

>>   * **" A right handed person, if they lose their right arm, will quickly
become a left handed person. They will have no problem learning to use their
left hand as well as they used to use their right hand."**[Todd
Kuiken](<http://www.poptech.org/speakers.cfm?page=speaker_detail&id=187>),
discussing amputees and prosthetics. Also remember [Jesse
Sullivan](<http://www.ric.org/bionic/>), the patient who demonstrated an
amazing new kind of prosthetic.

>>

>>   * **" Backing up the Biosphere"** - [Peter
Diamandis](<http://www.xprize.org/who/bio.php?bioname=diamandis>), impresario
extraordinaire, director of the [X
Prize](<http://www.xprize.org/about/index.php>). Describes vividly why the
human race should work on establishing a presence in places beyond earth. It's
the ultimate off-site storage for life. Also, take a look at the [X Prize
Store](<http://www.thespacestore.com/anxpronst.html>)

>>

>>   * **" The day before something is a major breakthrough it was a crazy
idea that would never work."**Another meme from Peter Diamandis.

>>

>>   * **" Methane Hidrate"**, [the ice that
burns!](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Methane_hydrate>)

>>

>>   * **" Soon there will be more people living in Bombay than on the whole
Australian continent.", **[Suketu Metha](<http://www.suketumehta.com/>)

>>

>>   * **" In Bombay there are sections with more than 1 million people
****per square mile** **!,** also [Suketu
Metha](<http://www.suketumehta.com/>) **.**

>>

>>   * **" That's not a vision… that's a hallucination!", **[Bunker
Roy](<http://www.unesco.org/courier/2000_03/uk/dossier/txt02.htm>), founder of
the [Barefoot College](<http://www.barefootcollege.org/>) in India.

>>

>>   * **" Indians are the second smartest people on earth … after the
Chinese!" **- According to Bunker Roy, **supposedly** a comment made by Bill
Gates in India. See [Christian Science
Monitor.](<http://www.csmonitor.com/2002/1114/p07s02-wosc.html>)

>>

>>   * **" Go from the Aha! to the So What?" **Slogan of the [Push
Conference](<http://www.pushthefuture.org/>), a conference that some people
are describing as the "new [Pop!Tech](<http://www.poptech.org/>)"

>>

>>

>>

>> (By the way, different folks [blogged Pop!Tech](<http://www.poptech.org/>)
in gory detail. Check out the front page for a list of bloggers.)

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [poptech](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/poptech>)


