---
title: "Scobleâ€™s conundrum"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-10-04 19:29:49
---

>>

>> His conundrum is that he loves both Web services (browser based
applications) and Windows applications and can't seem to pick a one-size-fits-
all preference. Apparently some of his readers noticed that and are calling
him to task on it.

>>

>>> "Some see my condundrum as being one brought upon by where I work. OK, it
certainly is a possibility that I'm drinking the Redmond Koolaid," ( **from**
[Scobelizer](<http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2005/10/04.html#a11363>))

>>

>> Read Scoble's whole post, it has a very good perspective, and actually I
**totally agree** with the dilemma. Maybe it's **not** a dilemma at all. Maybe
it's not being religious and just picking the best tool for the job, balancing
all factors relevant to you. Whether it's Windows or Web is one of many
characteristics, and not at all the most important one.

>>

>> I wrote about this recently over on the [BlogBridge
blog](<http://www.blogbridge.com/archives/2005/09/downloadable_ap.php>):

>>

>>> "I am **not going to tell** you that having an application is always
better than being a web site - and I am not necessarily agreeing with the
opposite either." (Click on the link to read the rest)

>>

>> If you review [my
post](<http://www.blogbridge.com/archives/2005/09/downloadable_ap.php>)
comparing it with
[Robert's](<http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2005/10/04.html#a11363>) you see
some similar and some different reasons cited, but the overall sentiment and
conclusion to be the same.

>>

>> Hey [Robert](<http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2005/10/04.html#a11363>),
forget about the **Redmond Koolaid** , that too is just **one factor**.

>>

>> It's been a **while** since you checked out
[BlogBridge](<http://www.blogbridge.com/>) and there are a lot of new ideas we
are trying out there which would be perfect for a user like you: direct
del.icio.us integration, SmartFeeds (like Outlook Smart Folders),
collaborative filtering, intelligent sorting and sub-setting, and on and on.
[Check it out](<http://www.blogbridge.com/install/final/blogbridge.jnlp>), or
better yet, let me give you a demo!

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [blogbridge](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/blogbridge>),
[scoble](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/scoble>)


