---
title: "Microsoft blogging: “What do managers do…”"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-09-26
---
# [Microsoft blogging: “What do managers do…”](None)



>>

>> I [often
cite](<http://www.blogonevent.com/archives/2005/09/ballmer_may_not.html>)
Microsoft as an example of corporate blogging that seems to really works: If
you work with, for, against Microsoft (and **who in the computer industry**
doesn't do one of those?) Microsoft Bloggers will give you a view into
Microsoft's thinking, attitude, plans and challenges that is **incredibly
valuable**.

>>

>> You (generally) won't learn any **trade secrets**. You will hear what you
might have heard if you ran into this or that Microsoftie in a Starbucks or at
a conference. But **few people do**.

>>

>> **Exhibit #1** is a recent post by Steven Sinofsky, a very senior Microsoft
manager, about how Microsoft thinks about management, how it structures its
development teams, and what kind of people and performance it values.

>>

>>> "The typical organization in Office development is one where there is a
group of about 5-8 developers (we'll use developers for this post, but the
discussion is just points of the dev/test/pm triad) managed by a lead
developer. That is the first level of management called a feature team.

>>>

>>> There are then 3-5 leads that report to a development manager. That is the
second level of management, usually called a group. The development manager
reports to a general manager or an executive manager that represents the place
that development, testing, and program management come together. This
structure is matched by development testing and program management (where
there are about equal numbers of testers, and about half that number of
program managers).

>>>

>>> The general manager or executive is where the product or technology comes
together (think SharePoint, or Excel, or the new Office "12" user interface).
In some groups, if there are a lot of products or a very large team there
might be one additional level of management.

>>>

>>> I manage these general managers. My boss manages the overall Office P&L,
so marketing, finance, HR, etc. as well as other products report to him." (
**from** [What do managers do and how big should my team
be?)](<http://blogs.msdn.com/techtalk/archive/2005/09/24/473599.aspx>)

>>

>> If you have ever tried to develop a relationship with a Microsoft product
group information like this, basic as it is, is really important. Check out
[Steve Sinofsky's blog](<http://blogs.msdn.com/techtalk/default.aspx>). It has
many other gems just like that one.

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [microsoft](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/microsoft>)


