---
title: "[GEEK] Java Web Start {again}"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-03-31 20:00:04
---

>>

>> There's [another flame-
up](<http://www.clientjava.com/blog/2005/03/28/1112029988215.html>) on the
WebStart commentary on the web, this time under the title _" Webstart, now I
see why people don't use it."

>>

>> _Even though I've spoken out about this once or twice, I couldn't resist
weighing in. _

>>

>> _**[Here's what I
wrote](<http://www.clientjava.com/blog/2005/03/28/1112029988215.html#comment1112117031426>)**
**:** _

>>

>> _

>>

>>> I have written so much about this in Blogs, newsgroups, etc that I won't
rehash it here; however I will put some links below for those who are
interested.

>>>

>>> **My Bottom lines:**

>>

>>   * WebStart is a very promising (I would call it tantalizingly close)
approach. The problem is that when you are trying to get people to use your
application, the one place where you need to be super robust is in the install
and setup and initial user experience, which is exactly where WebStart falls
down.

>>

>>   * The BlogBridge project is a major cross platform application that uses
Java Web Start. Today there have been thousands of installation. Of the people
that have any kind of installation or startup problem, 9 out of 10 are
Webstart related. [Try BlogBridge's Web Start experience for
yourself.](<//www.blogbridge.com/install/weekly/blogbridge.jnlp>)

>>

>>   * Java Web Start is not a solid solution for a cross platform java
application that you intend to deploy widely (on the internet not just
internally where you can handhold each user)

>>

>>   * BlogBridge will be abandoning WebStart in the next release with Great
Regret.

>>

>>   * IMHO Sun is acting contrary to their strategic goals (as stated) by not
paying sufficient attention to a major hurdle to succeeding on the desktop and
their progress on this front is so slow it's absurd.

>>

>>   * Sun has heard lots of highly specific technical explanations of where
the problems are and what the impact is and they say they understand but don't
act on it.

>>

>>

>>

>>> Here are some links where I wrote about this in the past. I am but one
voice in dozens. Click to read:

>>

>>   * [From
ClientJava.com](<http://www.clientjava.com/blog/2004/12/07/1102430658000.html>)

>>

>>   * [Also from
there](<http://www.clientjava.com/blog/2004/12/07/1102430658000.html#comment1102519273000>)

>>

>>   * [From my blog](</weblogs/archives/000529.html>)

>>

>>   * [Also from my blog](</weblogs/archives/000441.html>)

>>

>>   * [And also from my blog](</weblogs/archives/000336.html>)

>>

>>


