---
title: "The death of spam?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-08-06
---


>>

>> My friend [Paul English](<http://www.paulenglish.com/>) has [written an
interesting bit about](<http://paulenglish.com/spam/>) spam and ways that we
need to combat it:

>>

>>> "The keys to ending spam are (1) to eliminate the ability for spammers to
falsely identify themselves and (2) to then determine which Email Service
Providers (ESPs) actually prevent their correctly identified users from
sending spam." ( **From** [Sender Identification
Rollout](<http://www.paulenglish.com/spam/>))"

>>

>> Paul makes a **very interesting** analogy with Identity Theft - he calls it
"Email Identity Theft."

>>

>> In the [following
piece](<http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2005/04/mitigating_iden.html>),
[Bruce Schneier](<http://www.schneier.com/index.html>) writes some novel
thoughts about identity theft, basically making the argument that scaring
consumers about identity theft is exactly the wrong thing:

>>

>>> "Identity theft solutions focus much too much on authenticating the
person. Whether it's two-factor authentication, ID cards, biometrics, or
whatever, there's a widespread myth that authenticating the person is the way
to prevent these crimes.

>>>

>>> But once you understand that the problem is fraudulent transactions, you
quickly realize that authenticating the person isn't the way to proceed." (
**from** [Mitigating Identity
Theft](<http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2005/04/mitigating_iden.html>))

>>

>> Bruce makes a point **analogous to what Paul is saying** - which is to put
the onus on the service providers to not only prevent but importantly to
shoulder the risk and liability:

>>

>>> "We need to make the entity that is in the **best position** to mitigate
the risk to be responsible for that risk. And that means making the financial
institutions liable for fraudulent transactions."( **from** [Mitigating
Identity
Theft](<http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2005/04/mitigating_iden.html>))

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [security](<http://technorati.com/tag/security>)


[The death of spam?](None)
