---
title: "What Windowsâ€™ defenders should know about Mac OS X Tiger"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-05-16 20:39:49
---

>>

>> I often hear folks beat up Microsoft Windows for being a breeding ground
for viruses, spyware, and all sorts of malware. Bad Microsoft for being so
sloppy!

>>

>> There was a [recent
exchange](<http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2005/05/16.html#a10129>) between
Scoble and [Dan Gillmor](<http://bayosphere.com/node/374>), where Scoble
defends Microsoft against what he feels is an unfair attack:

>>

>>> "But, today, he took a shot at Microsoft that I thought was unfair. Here,
I'll wait while you go and check out his post.

>>>

>>> _" I would have written a different beginning to this story, roughly as
follows: In winning and sustaining its monopoly in the operating system and
browser markets, Microsoft has exposed countless millions of people to woes
from security holes that have become conduits for viruses, worms and spyware.
Now the software giant is planning to charge its captive customers to clean up
the mess it created." _

>>>

>>> Dan, we've done a TON of security work and distributed that to our
customers for free (one of the largest operating system updates in our
history, Windows XP Service Pack 2, was given away free). We've given away a
beta of our AntiSpyware program for months now (after spending lots of money
to buy the company that made it). ([From
Scoblizer](<http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011/2005/05/16.html#a10129>))"

>>

>> People living in the world of Windows may not know that in the most recent
release of the Mac OS, "
**[Tiger](<http://www.apple.com/macosx/newfeatures/>)** " there's a security
hole so **big** you can drive a **truck** through it, that if it had been in
Windows, there would have been **hell to pay.**

>>

>> So being that I live with a foot in each world, and being a fan of irony, I
can't help but point it out ðŸ™‚

>>

>> One of the fairly neat features of Tiger is the so-called **"**
**[Dashboard](<http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/dashboard/>)** **"** - an
environment to launch little handy applets (we used to call them Desk
Accessories in the old days, remember? Dashboard calls them "widgets")

>>

>> I say **fairly** neat, because while they look very pretty, in practice
they aren't that useful. They are practically a direct knockoff of a product
called [Konfabulator](<http://www.widgetgallery.com/>), which is available for
Mac and Windows. But that's **not the problem** â€¦

>>

>> _[_ ** _Update_** _: the following paragraph has been clarified based on
the comment below]_

>>

>> The problem is that in the default settings of Tiger, Widgets are
automatically downloaded and opened without any warning. Exactly how much of
the widget code gets run simply by opening it is not totally clear, but feels
quite dangerous, because widgets can contain arbitrary code, with full access
to the underlying system. They can even **run unix shell scripts!**

>>

>> Now there's a simple setting ('Open "safe" files after downloading') which
you can turn off to disable this risky behavior. But of course **most users**
will never discover this setting or be aware of the risk.

>>

>> There has been quite a bit of
[handwringing](<http://www.macobserver.com/article/2005/05/09.2.shtml>) about
this in the Mac community, and speculation that Apple will fix this bug in the
first rev of OS X Tiger. But in the meanwhile, let's see if any malware
strikes.

>>

>> Certainly if the **shoe** had been on the other **foot** (or the shade on
the other Windows) there would have been **hell to pay for Microsoft!**

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [mac](<http://technorati.com/tag/mac>),
[microsoft](<http://technorati.com/tag/microsoft>),
[osx](<http://technorati.com/tag/osx>),
[security](<http://technorati.com/tag/security>)


