---
title: "Bloglines Killer? Arenâ€™t we being a bit premature?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-05-15 16:27:11
---

>>

>> [Richard MacManus made a
statement](<http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/002719.php#comments>) in a
post last week which elicited a lot of very interesting responses:

>>

>> "Competition for Bloglines: We're nearly halfway through 2005 and there's
still no heavyweight competition to Bloglines, in the web based RSS aggregator
stakes."

>>

>> The comment thread on the post is excellent and interesting, so I won't
parrot all that stuff all over again. If you are interested, take a look
[there](<http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/002719.php#comments>). (I
especially recommend [this
response](<http://mike.teczno.com/notes/competition_for_bloglines.html>) from
Michal Migurski.)

>>

>> But here's my question: isn't it **way too early** to be assuming that
there's a 'winner' which has to be unseated?

>>

>> Of course I am a **big fan** of blogs and RSS, but let's recognize that
this is still a tiny phenomenon in the greater world and that there will be
many variations and combinations, integrations and disintegrations that will
have to be invented.

>>

>> I mean, clearly Bloglines is a **first generation** web based aggregator.
Yes, it's garnered an apparently strong following ( **within** this
proportionately tiny phenomenon.)

>>

>> But as you can see the comment thread on Richard's post, there are several
teams working on reinventions of the idea of a web based aggregator and any of
them may turn out to be the **Next Big Thing**.

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [blog](<http://technorati.com/tag/blog>),
[RSS](<http://technorati.com/tag/RSS>)


