---
title: "Tags, Meta Tags, Meta Data, Yada Yada"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-01-27 22:57:32
---
It is of course impossible to keep up with the avalanche of discussion about
the topic of tags, _folksonomies_ , _tagonomies_. [David
Weinberger](<http://www.hyperorg.com/blogger/mtarchive/003625.html>) points to
a ( **beautifully designed** : love those pictures!) essay on the topic from
[burningbird](<http://weblog.burningbird.net/archives/2005/01/27/cheap-eats-
at-the-semantic-web-cafe/>) with lots of good quotes and pointers to other
essays. Wow, a lot to read!

>>

>> In my mind the crucial thing about this new approach classification is that
it gets around the **achilles heel** of the traditional approach of meta
tagging or controlled vocabularies, which is, _that most people just don 't do
it._

>>

>> There are some special circumstances when a fixed list (or hierarchy) of
categories or topics or tags will work for most people. But in the majority of
cases, a fixed list of categories to apply to some item of information just
causes frustration ("the category I am looking for isn't there") or confusion
("What does tag X even mean?")

>>

>> The end result is that information just gets **mis-tagged** or is **left
un-tagged**. This is where so called folksonomies are so superior. Yes, often
information will get misclassified. Whether this is so often as to render the
whole system useless is an open question, which Technorati Tags, Del.icio.us
and others will help us discover.

>>

>> p.s: One of the dangers to commenting on this discussion is that it is
basically **impossible** to read all the essays and follow all the links and
so you risk repeating what was already said. I believe that [Clay Shirky has
made essentially the same
point](<http://www.corante.com/many/archives/2005/01/07/folksonomies_controlled_vocabularies.php>).
At least I am in good company.


