---
title: "[ETECH] Taxonomy of Folksonomies"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-03-22
---



There's been a lot of talk about tags, folksonomies, taxonomies, etc. Trying
to make sense out of this can be confusing. At the recent ETech conference
there was more than one presentation on the topic, each of which helped me
understand the subtleties a little better, and organize them in my mind.
_[What follows is fairly inside-baseball so if you are not particularly into
this topic it will probably be somewhat obscure and likely not very
interesting, so you are warned!]_ What are we to do with this term **'
Tags'?** It is used in many different places, sometimes to mean the same thing
and **sometimes something subtly different**. This is not surprising about a
set of ideas that are morphing right in front of our eyes and ears. So let's
look at some examples and compare them. Let's look at tags in Flickr and tags
in Del.icio.us (if you don't know one or the other, you owe it to yourself to
look into them.)  Both have tags, but they are different in a subtle way:  In
Flickr I am tagging **my own stuff** (pictures that I've uploaded) mostly**for
other people** to find.  In Del.icio.us I am tagging mostly **other people 's
stuff** (links to web pages) for**my own benefit** , that is organizing links
of interest to me. Look at this:
[![metataggraph.jpg](https://i0.wp.com/s3.media.squarespace.com/production/1075723/12829350/weblogs/metataggraph/metataggraph.jpg?resize=420%2C215)](<https://i0.wp.com/s3.media.squarespace.com/production/1075723/12829350/weblogs/metataggraph/metataggraph.jpg>)
One way to organize a taxonomy of folksonomies is to notice that there are two
dimensions: Whose stuff is being tagged, and for whose benefit. Flickr ends up
in the bottom right, and del.icio.us in the top left. But what about the other
quadrants? This organization gives a **new way** of looking at conventional
concepts like folders and directories on personal computers (_my stuff/my own
benefits_) and Web based directories like Yahoo (_other people 's stuff/other
people's benefit._)


