---
title: "Scoble, Technorati and Bloglines (and Dow Jones and Nasdaq AGAIN different?! What’s going on?)"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-07-19
---

**Link: [Scoble, Technorati and Bloglines (and Dow Jones and Nasdaq AGAIN different?! What’s going on?)](None):** ""

**Scoble** has been
[really](<http://padawan.info/weblog/weapons_of_mass_delusion.html>) picking
on Technorati recently, and I can't figure out why. Given the **megaphone**
that Robert has it has got to be really hurting Technorati. There has been a
lot of detailed commentary about this, some of it quite good, for example
[David
Berlind](<http://blogs.zdnet.com/BTL/?p=1609&part=rss&tag=feed&subj=zdblog>)
and [Dan
Farber](<http://blogs.zdnet.com/BTL/?p=1613&part=rss&tag=feed&subj=zdblog>) on
ZDNet and
[Padawan](<http://padawan.info/weblog/weapons_of_mass_delusion.html>).info. My
**modest contribution** to the debate is this: **Why** does it **shock**
anyone that the number of **links** reported by Technorati is different than
the number of **citations** counted by Bloglines? These are statistics for
which there are no objective definitions. Both sites are measuring
**_something_** but are they measuring the **same** thing? **No**!
**Unfortunately** (**sort of**) neither site gives the detailed objective
definition of what they are measuring. I **say "sort of"**, because,
guaranteed, those definitions would be inaccurate and dated, and no one would
read them anyway.  (**Update** : I am pretty sure that my modest contribution
is not original but it what is screaming out in my mind each time I read about
this topic.) (**Update 2:** Maybe a better analogy would be feigned surprise
that Fox News poll results differ from The New York Times, or that the
statistics about how many people have died from AIDS are different depending
on who is reporting. I mean, this isn't the speed of light we are talking
about here.) Technorati Tags:
[bloglines](<http://technorati.com/tag/bloglines>),
[scoble](<http://technorati.com/tag/scoble>),
[technorati](<http://technorati.com/tag/technorati>),
[truth](<http://technorati.com/tag/truth>)


