---
title: "What’s up with AllofMP3.com?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-07-06
---
# [What’s up with AllofMP3.com?](None)



>>

>> I was probably the last one to hear about
[AllofMp3.com](<http://www.allofmp3.com/>). It's this massive, well organized
and **apparently solid** Mp3 download site. Music is not free, but extremely
cheap. It's apparently hosted in Russia or somewhere else.

>>

>> The question is of course, "is it legal" and "is it ethical"? Friends of
mine who've known about it for years (claim to) never use it. I have to say it
gives me pause to download the whole "Tapestry" Album ( **Carole King** , from
the **Jurasic Period** ) for something like $1.50. Ridonculous.

>>

>> There apparently have been lawsuits trying to shut down the site. Just
today I there's talk about another one: "[UK trade body to Sue
AllofMp3.com"](<http://www.vnunet.com/vnunet/news/2159643/bpi-sues-russian-
download-site>):

>>

>>> "The [Russian music site](<http://www.allofmp3.com/>) sells copyrighted
material for as little as 3p per track and claims to pay licence fees to the
Russian Multimedia and Internet Society.

>>>

>>> However, the BPI said that the Russian body is not officially recognised
and that UK copyright holders receive no fees for the tracks that are sold."

>>

>> Indeed, [they themselves of course
say](<http://music.allofmp3.com/help/help.shtml?help=on#top>) that it's
perfectly legal to use their sit.
[Apparently](<http://news.com.com/MP3s+for+pennies+Russian+cops+say+no/2100-1027_3-5586034.html>)
this is [not the first
time](<http://www.nytimes.com/2006/06/01/world/europe/01cnd-
mp3.html?ex=1306814400&en=1b9a6516e44ba11e&ei=5088>) that someone tried to
shut them down.

>>

>> How about this: I actually own a vinyl copy of Tapestry. So, royalties have
been paid to Carole King and whoever else. Does that change your view on the
legality or fairness of using this site - if **all you do** is get mp3 copies
of music you already have bought and paid for?

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [music](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/music>),
[mp3](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/mp3>)


