---
title: "RSS is not a goalâ€¦"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-03-06T00:28:13
---


>>

>> [glenn](<http://www.furia.com/page.cgi?type=log>) has been busy today. A
series of very intriguing posts, all made today, a Sunday no less. I can
remember when glenn insisted on keeping his Sunday's clear of anything non-
recreational. You should check out his
[blog](<http://www.furia.com/page.cgi?type=log>), there's lots of good stuff
there.

>>

>> This one caught my eye - "[RSS is not a
goal](<http://www.furia.com/page.cgi?type=log&id=205>)" wherein I encountered
this especially meaningful (to me) paragraph:

>>

>>> "And in the meantime, if I were working on any kind of RSS/OPML-related
application, I would take a day or two to stop and think about my goals, not
in terms of today's syntaxes but in terms of the flow of information between
human beings, and between machines as our facilitators. I'd want, and maybe
this is just me, to be working on something that not only improves the lives
of people using the imperfect tools it has to work with right now, but would
improve the lives of people even more efficiently if the world in which it
operates were itself improved. Sometimes a broken window demands plywood, but
as a tool-maker I dream of making something you won't just throw away after
this crisis passes." ( **from** "RSS is not a goal")

>>

>> Indeed - while I spend (too many of) my waking (and sleeping) hours
**thinking** about how to make BlogBridge **better** , more useful, more
compelling, at the same time I **agree** that RSS, aggregators, Feeds, Blogs,
OPML, and all dat stuf are transitionary. They are definitely doing something
that humans find very useful, but the whole thing is too much of a
**hairball**.

>>

>> **There still is work to be done**. Lots of it. glenn, want to help?

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [blogbridge](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/blogbridge>),
[RSS](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/RSS>)


