---
title: "Interesting article with a catchy title: “Surprising Truth about Ugly Websites”"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-08-30
---


>>

>> Someone forwarded [this](<http://www.site-reference.com/articles/Website-
Development/The-Surprising-Truth-About-Ugly-Websites.html>) to me the other
day. You might have seen it, but I still thought it was worth mentioning,
because I had not come across it before. In fact I **didn 't** even know about
the site where the article was published, [SiteReference](<http://www.site-
reference.com/>).

>>

>> Here are a couple of brief excerpts:

>>

>>> "That's right - ugly websites are surprisingly effective in making money.
As a person who puts business before technology, a profitable website is a
website is an unbelievably attractive website to me." ( **from**
[SiteReference](<http://www.site-reference.com/articles/Website-
Development/The-Surprising-Truth-About-Ugly-Websites.html>))

>>

>> **Catchy** , eh? As I read it, I first agreed, then became a little annoyed
that the writer made it sound like everything revolved about _the way a site
looks,_ while I'd say that a lot depends on _what it does._ But I think I was
being **pre-judgemental** , because in the conclusion:

>>

>>> "What we need to keep in mind, is that websites are meant to be used -
used for reading, used for network, used for shopping, etc. Websites, like any
other marketing tool, convey a message and are an invitation for visitors to
trust us. Our design needs to reflect this.

>>>

>>> "Take a moment today to look over your website. Is it really **easy to
use**? Have you been more worried about the look of your website than its
functionality? Would it be more effective if it were simpler in its design?"
(from [SireReference](<http://www.site-reference.com/articles/Website-
Development/The-Surprising-Truth-About-Ugly-Websites.html>))

>>

>> A really good article. If you are involved with designing web sites, I
**recommend** it.


* **Link to site:** **[Interesting article with a catchy title: “Surprising Truth about Ugly Websites”](None)**
