---
title: "Come to OPML Camp: May 20-21, 2006, Boston, USA!"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-04-04 15:35:01
---

>>

>> There is a _[lot of stuff going on with OPML](<http://opmlcamp.com/>)_
these days. OPML stands for Outline Processing Markup Language, invented and
evangelized by [Dave Winer](<http://www.scripting.com/>) [some
number](<http://www.opml.org/about>) of years ago. Since then though, at least
from my observation, it's had its greatest traction as an import / export
format for RSS Aggregators.

>>

>> But now, there are [lots](<http://www.opmlsearch.com/>) of
[cool](<http://www.grazr.com/>) [new
ideas](<http://libraryclips.blogsome.com/2005/12/26/my-or-mysyndicaat-the-
ultimate-newsmasters-processing-tool/>) [floating](<http://feedrinse.com/>)
around, prototypes and products being built, that rely on and leverage OPML.
Also there are lots of [less new sites
](<http://www.web20workgroup.com/>)which are using OPML in interesting ways.

>>

>> In short, anyone who uses, generates, processes, filters or renders a
hierarchical list of some kind, especially of Feeds, should consider using
OPML as input or output or both. That is the way to interop, and lots of
amazing leverage. Think of it as a different kind of mashup!

>>

>> [OPML camp](<http://www.opmlcamp.com/>) can be a gathering where the ones
who are 'into' OPML compare notes with each other and discover new directions,
and the ones who can't spell OPML get a chance to learn and add their ideas to
the mix.

>>

>> Come to [OPML Camp](<http://opmlcamp.com/>). I'll be there! Here are the
coordinates:

>>

>> **When** : May 20-21 **Where** : Harvard Law School, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, USA **Signup** : [click here](<http://opmlcamp.com/?p=35>)

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [OPML](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/OPML>),
[opmlcamp](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/opmlcamp>),
[readinglists](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/readinglists>)


