---
title: "YAGD: “yet another geek dinner” – July 19th 2006 – NEW LOCATION"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-06-27
---



We are having another super-informal-geeky-but-not-exclusively-geeks **Geek
Dinner** , and we have a **lovely** new location, sponsored by our friends at
[Permabit](<http://www.permabit.com/>) (Thanks Tom and Katie!) Who is **we** ,
again? [Bela Labovitch](<http://blogs.opml.org/BelaLabovitch>), [Adam
Green](<http://feedonomics.grazr.com/>) and me. We've organized two of these
this year, and they were lots-o-fun. People met, talked: no **cures for
cancer** were discovered but in general people felt it was good enough to try
again. What happens at these things? Just a lot of chatter about products,
technologies, politics and in general, "wats goin on" in the Boston area,
Geek-wise. Oh and of course, **food and drink** will be provided, NO CHARGE!
Everyone is welcome, **and people who came last time** : invite along a friend
who didn't come or didn't know about it. **Really**! It would be nice to have
new faces. There's **no agenda**. We might go around and show off folks latest
creations, or not. Bring your **laptop** of you've got a demo you want to
show, bring **business cards** if you have them. But this is not primarily a
demo-rama, it's more of a network-o-rama. **See you there!** Here are the
coordinates:

>>

>>> **When** : July 19, Wednesday, 6:30pm to 9:30pm **Where** : Permabit, 25
First Street, 2nd Floor. Across from the Galleria Mall. **Topics of
discussion:** AJAXPHPOPMLRSSJAVAETC Ple[ase confirm your attendance by
clicking
here!](<http://www.evite.com/app/publicUrl/rps@salas.com/geekdinner3>)

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [geekdinner](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/geekdinner>),
[Geeky](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/Geeky>)


