---
title: "Did the NSA “break the law”?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-01-05
---
# [Did the NSA “break the law”?](None)



>>

>> I know that [this blog](<http://powerlineblog.com/>) ([Power
Line](<http://powerlineblog.com/>)) is pretty hard-core conservative, but I
found their analysis of the legal questions around the NSA electronic
intercept program fairly convincing.

>>

>>> "The only constitutional limitation on the President's power to intercept
communications by Americans for national security purposes is that such
intercepts be "reasonable."

>>>

>>> Is it reasonable for the administration to do all it can to identify the
people who are communicating with known terrorists overseas, via the
terrorists' cell phones and computers, and to learn what terrorist plots are
being hatched by those persons? Is it reasonable to do so even when--rather,
especially when-some portion of those communications come from people inside
the United States?

>>>

>>> I don't find it difficult to answer those questions; nor, if called upon
to do so, would the Supreme Court." ( **from**
[Powerline](<http://powerlineblog.com/archives/012631.php>))

>>

>> This in contrast with a **highly speculative** article in the [Boston
Phoenix](<http://bostonphoenix.com/boston/news_features/other_stories/multi_5/documents/05188679.asp>)
that purposely confuses some facts with lots of more or less random prediction
and speculation:

>>

>>> "Fearful that his presidency could be swept into the same historical
dustbin as Richard Nixon's, an unrepentant President George W. Bush seems
intent on prosecuting the sources who leaked to the New York Times the details
of his administration's warrantless domestic spying. But does Bush have the
chutzpah to go after the Times itself?" ( **from** the [Boston
Phoenix](<http://bostonphoenix.com/boston/news_features/other_stories/multi_5/documents/05188679.asp>))

>>

>> Did you notice that? " _Bush seems intent on … " _and " _… does Bush have
the chtuzpah to …_" Stating some speculative questions and then writing a
whole article assuming that the answer is "yes" but with no evidence other
than, "that's the kind of thing he would do."

>>

>> But the more direct connection between the Phoenix bit and the Powerline
bit is this:

>>

>>> "Many believe that the Times performed an incalculably valuable service
when it reported last month on a top-secret National Security Agency program
-- **almost certainly unlawful** -- involving presidentially (but not court-)
approved electronic surveillance of message traffic between people in this
country and locations abroad." ( **from** [Boston
Phoenix](<http://bostonphoenix.com/boston/news_features/other_stories/multi_5/documents/05188679.asp>)
again.)

>>

>> Notice the "almost certainly unlawful" - I don't think it's anything like
that clear. Anyway, I am no Bush apologist, by a long shot, but both these
articles were very thought provoking, for different reasons.

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [puppy](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/puppy>)


