---
title: "Amazing(ly unpleasant) story about a car"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-03-30
---



My friend [Francois](<http://www.emergencemarketing.com>) posts a [horrifying
real-life
story](<http://www.emergencemarketing.com/archives/2006/03/mercedes_a_case_study_on.php>)
about him and his Mercedes Benz. It makes a compelling read, kind of like
**watching a train wreck** is compelling.

>>

>>> "My final analysis? No wonder **Mercedes has tumbled to 21st** in the most
recent JD Power Satisfaction Survey. It is mind boggling (instructive too) to
witness and experience how such a prestigious brand has fallen so far so fast.
And while I've learned something, believe me that it's been no fun being on
the receiving end of this knowledge." (**from** "[Mercedes - a case study on
how to squander a great
brand](<http://www.emergencemarketing.com/archives/2006/03/mercedes_a_case_study_on.php>)")

>>

>>> Could it be that [buying Chrysler](<http://www.daimlerchrysler.com/dccom>)
was not such a good idea after all? Read the [whole
post](<http://www.emergencemarketing.com/archives/2006/03/mercedes_a_case_study_on.php>)!
Oh, and being the **consummate marketer** , Francois can't resist a plug for
his upcoming ["Innovative Marketing Conference CMO
Summi](<http://www.emergencemarketing.com/archives/2006/03/mercedes_a_case_study_on.php>)t":

>>

>>> "Oh one more thing: [Mr
McNabb](<http://www.brandweek.com/bw/news/autos/article_display.jsp?vnu_content_id=1002074029>),
if you happen to stumble upon this post, I would like to extend you a
complimentary invitation to our upcoming [Innovative Marketing Conference's
CMO Summit](<http://events.corante.com/imc/>) - a $1,500 value. Not only would
it be fun to have you there to discuss Mercedes as a case study, but you might
actually walk away from the event with some valuable lessons on how to do the
right thing for your customers." (**from** "[Mercedes - a case study on how to
squander a great
brand](<http://www.emergencemarketing.com/archives/2006/03/mercedes_a_case_study_on.php>)")

>>

>> Technorati Tags:
[mercedesbenz](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/mercedesbenz>)


