---
title: "Geek Dinner? Harvard Square? February 15th? Should be fun!"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-01-29
---



Inspired by **Geek Dinners** popping up all over, we thought it might be
**fun** to [try it here](<http://www.darwinianweb.com/archive/2006/206.html>).
Who is "we"? Adam Green, who writes [Darwinian
Web](<http://www.darwinianweb.com/>), and yours truly who writes [this
Blog](</>) and also runs the [BlogBridge
project](<http://www.blogbridge.com/>). Adam also has a [Ruby
Blog](<http://ruby.darwinianweb.com/>) (he's been swallowed whole by Ruby) as
well as a [Mashup Blog](<http://mashup.darwinianweb.com/>). The third "we" is
Mark Doerschlag.. What is this "geek dinner" thing? Well 3 guys **inviting all
their geek friends** to hang out and geek out for a few hours. Each of us have
almost non-overlapping networks so this is a chance for us to make new
connections around town, and for you to do the same.,
[This](<http://www.darwinianweb.com/archive/2006/206.html>) is like, **totally
totally informal**! **Anyone** who reads this blog is invited. You don't have
to be a geek, but you probably should like to hang out with them ðŸ™‚  Expect the
crowd to be, well, you know, **technical types**. We have **no idea** whether
it will be just the three of us (which would be a bit embarassingâ€¦ ) or who
else will come. As it is **totally informal** there are no startup, setup or
other commitments. The space is borrowed (thanks
[RSSLabs](<http://www.opmlworkstation.com/About.aspx>) and
[Bela](<http://blogs.opml.org/belaLabovitch>)!) , so, **nothing ventured
nothing gained** as they say. So with no further ado, here are the
**coordinates**.  **Location** : [66 Church
Street](<http://maps.a9.com/?ypLoc=66%20church%20street%2C%20cambridge%2C%20ma>),
Cambridge. (Near Fire and Ice) **Time** : 6:30 to 9:00pm **Topics of
discussion** : Web 2.0, RSS, OPML, AJAX, Ruby, Mashups, Web Services,
Startups, etc. **RSVP** : dinner at darwinianweb dot com  **Please come**!
Technorati Tags: [adamgreen](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/adamgreen>),
[geekdinner](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/geekdinner>)


