---
title: "Why does anyone care about running Windows on the new Macs?"
author: Pito Salas


date: 2006-01-21T15:03:40
---


>>

>> When you're a blogger it's sometimes a **strain** to say something **new**
about a topic that's [gone around and
around](<http://www.google.com/search?q=intel%20mac%20vista%20xp>). I am
pretty sure you've seen the announcement from Apple that their [next
generation of Macintosh computers will use Intel
processors](<http://www.apple.com/macbookpro/>).

>>

>> Other than the industry **melodrama** about Steve Jobs embracing the very
chips that for years he insulted, and perhaps bemusement of how Steve got that
Intel Exec to dress up in a silly white costume while Steve looked cool in his
traditional black turtle-neck.

>>

>> But other than that, who cares that Mac's are now going to have "Intel
Inside"? I mean for me it's kind of like finding out that next year's model
car is switching to a Bosch electronic ignition from a GM model.

>>

>> There's also [been a lot of commentary](<http://engadget.com/2006/01/11/no-
xp-on-intel-macs-but-vista-is-good-to-go/>) on
[whether](<http://www.betanews.com/article/XP_Wont_Run_on_Intel_MacBook_iMac/1137003330>)
the new Intel based Macs would run Microsoft Windows. One the one hand it's
again a bit [gossipy](<http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/10794396/from/RS.3/>):
"Would Apple bury the hatchet with Microsoft or would they spitefully prohibit
(legally) or prevent (technically) this?"

>>

>> There's a more interesting _strategic_ question there though.

>>

>> It relates to how Apple for years and years kept their software and
hardware **proprietary**. Nobody but Apple could make Macs and no computers
but Macs could run the Mac OS.

>>

>> This new development opens the door a **crack** , and if Windows could run
on the new Macs, it would open even further. The next natural question would
be, could Mac's OS X Operating System run on a Dell? Would Apple **permit**
it?

>>

>> **How about this one** : It is conceivable to me that Windows Vista would
run **better** on Apple hardware than any other. Now wouldn't that be a
**hoot**? How could that happen? Better in the sense of more reliably and
robustly. Not because Apple designs better hardware than Dell (although they
might.)

>>

>> It could happen because Apple hardware **is a lot more closed** than PC
compatible computers. The configurations that occur in the field are far
**more limited** and well known. No old **Acme Brand** network cards or
motherboards out there.

>>

>> Hence Microsoft (and Apple) potentially will be able to deliver **a more
solid solution when combining WIndows Vista with Intel based Macs.** _If Steve
allows it._

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [mac](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/mac>),
[intel](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/intel>),
[strategy](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/strategy>)


