---
title: "Bob Tedeschi on using RSS for travel information"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-01-29
---
# [Bob Tedeschi on using RSS for travel information](None)



>>

>> Here's an [interesting
article](<http://www.nytimes.com/2006/01/29/travel/29prac.html?ei=5088&en=ccb135d1ead1e480&ex=1296190800&adxnnl=1&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss&adxnnlx=1138540124-7iEb+OfxwPPWunCmchZ5ng>)
in today's New York Times about how to get travel information in your your
home page, like My Yahoo and others. This all hinges on RSS of course, which
means you can bring your travel information into BlogBridge and other
aggregators.

>>

>>> "Recently, these sites began allowing consumers to populate their home
pages with similar information they'd find in e-mail newsletters, with two
added benefits: all the relevant information from multiple sites appears on
one page, instead of multiple e-mails, and the information is often
considerably fresher, with several updates a week - or even a day." ( **from**
["There's a popular new code for Deals:
RSS"](<http://www.nytimes.com/2006/01/29/travel/29prac.html?ei=5088&en=ccb135d1ead1e480&ex=1296190800&adxnnl=1&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss&adxnnlx=1138540124-7iEb+OfxwPPWunCmchZ5ng>))

>>

>> Take a look at the article, it's interesting.

>>

>> Here are some fun links that you can drag and drop into BlogBridge to
follow travel specials.

>>

>>   * [Here's Kayak's list of recent travel
deals](<http://www.kayak.com/h/rss/deals>)

>>

>>   * [Here's SideStep's International travel
deals](<http://www.sidestep.com/rssfeeds/travelfinds_flights_international.xml>)

>>

>>

>>

>> One more thing: This is not just limited to travel deals. In fact many
other shopping sites are providing Feeds for tracking deals. Here are some
that I follow:

>>

>>   * [DealNews 20 most recent deals on the
web](<http://content.dealnews.com/dealnews/rss/last-twenty.xml>)

>>

>>   * [DealNews 20 most popular deals on the
web](<http://content.dealnews.com/dealnews/rss/popular.xml>)

>>

>>   * [Ben's Bargains Network](<http://bensbargains.net/rss.xml>)

>>

>>

>>

>> Now you can drag and drop any of these into your favorite aggregator, but
I've also created a [Reading
List](<http://www.blogbridge.com/rl/291/Pito%27s+Shipping+List.opml>) so you
can simply keep an eye on my recommended shopping feeds. (Yes, a broken record
ðŸ™‚ To use it, choose a Guide in BlogBridge, and in Guide Properties, Reading
List, simply add [this
url](<http://www.blogbridge.com/rl/291/Pito%27s+Shipping+List.opml>) to the
list and you are in business. Each time I add a new one to the list, you will
automagically get it!

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [Bob Tedeschi](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/Bob
Tedeschi>), [OPML](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/OPML>),
[shopping](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/shopping>),
[readinglists](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/readinglists>),
[RSS](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/RSS>),
[travel](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/travel>)


