---
title: "“We make it up in volume”"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-04-01
---


>>

>> There's a new **[meme
floating](<http://avc.blogs.com/a_vc/2006/03/my_favorite_bus.html>)** around,
" **Freemium** ", a cute/clever word for a kind of business model. _Giving it
away free._

>>

>> **Say what?**

>>

>> You may know that I am associated with a [software
product](<http://www.blogbridge.com/>) which is given away free.
[BlogBridge](<http://www.blogbridge.com/>) is a substantial, useful, real
product, which for some crazy reason, we give away free. Everyone wants to
know, "What's your business model"? So now I have a cool/web2.0 response:
"Freemium."

>>

>> [Many people](<http://avc.blogs.com/a_vc/2006/03/my_favorite_bus.html>)
have written about this new term, even though as far as I can tell it was
coined a few days ago! Aint the blogosphere great? Anyway [Davd Beisel
wrote](<http://www.genuinevc.com/archives/2006/03/musing_on_freem.htm>) a good
summary of the basic concept and then builds on it, perhaps explaining why it
is an appealing model:

>>

>>> "With the abundant number of technology-enabled services and content
available today, **customers want to mitigate risk** in the usage and
purchasing of them. By apportioning the clear payment associated with the
value away from its initial transmission, business which do so address this
need, fostering viral spreading, usage, and loyalty of their service." (
**from** "Musing on Freemium and Ad-Supported")

>>

>> My question is though, _who is mitigating the risk for the author_?

>>

>> I've written about this, and have spoken many times about it: **Why do we
all expect great software to be free?** Why do people turn their noses up when
they are asked for a measly $29.95 for a work that took hundreds if not
thousands of person days to create? In my opinion it is because of that
expectation that we are **stuck with monopolies** and hegemonies that are so
totally locked in. No-one can afford to compete!


