---
title: "Some really interesting Reading Lists are generated by algorithm rather than by a person"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-02-05
---


>>

>> [Amyloo](<http://blogs.opml.org/amyloo/>) has an [interesting
post](<http://blogs.opml.org/amyloo/2006/02/04#churningUrnsOfBurningFunk>)
about reading lists. One thing **bears expanding** on:

>>

>>> "There's a tendency to think of reading lists as topic-oriented and fairly
static -- refined and appended to, but keeping most of the same data over
time. A slant on reading lists I've thought about are specialized lists that
change their composition entirely on a periodic basis, a list in which none of
the feeds you see today may be there next week." ( **from** [Churning urns of
burning
funk](<http://blogs.opml.org/amyloo/2006/02/04#churningUrnsOfBurningFunk>))

>>

>> **True**. And actually there are a lot of very interesting sources for
reading lists which are not human experts but still make very interesting
reading.

>>

>> For example, you can get [Feedster's Top
100](<http://top500.feedster.com/>) Blogs as a [Reading
List](<http://top500.feedster.com/top500.php?type=opml>). The result using
this hyperlink as a Reading List is a dynamic set of feeds, the Feedster 100,
which is automatically changed whenever Feedster resorts their Top100.

>>

>> Almost more interesting, you can use Gada.be to compute a dynamic Reading
List which is the result of a search query. So for example, interactively,
here is Gada.be's search result for Chris Pirillo. And here is the same thing
as a [Reading List.](<http://gada.be/d/chrispirillo/opml>) The result of using
this hyperlink as a Reading List is a set of feeds corresponding to the result
of the search in a whole series of search engines.

>>

>> [Try both examples in
BlogBridge](<http://www.blogbridge.com/archives/2006/02/how_do_i_subscr.php>)
to see. Makes your **head spin** doesn't it? (At least it does mine ðŸ™‚

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [OPML](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/OPML>),
[readinglists](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/readinglists>)


