---
title: "Whatâ€™s happening to Google?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2007-12-10T14:11:00
---



You know I am a [fan of Google](</2007/11/20/google-is-the-universe/>). But
lately I've had some conversations which have sensitized me to noticing the
quality of Google's search results. As I've written elsewhere, the world of
[Search Engine Optimization is all about manipulating Google's search results
to help businesses make money](</2007/12/05/geeky-seo-expert-advice-
debunked/>).

Let me give you a case study. Right now in Boston we have the musical Mama Mia
playing at the Colonial theater. If I wanted to find out the times and prices
of tickets, I might search for "[Mama Mia
Boston](<http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&safe=off&client=firefox-a&rls=org.mozilla%3Aen-
US%3Aofficial&hs=E5f&q=Mama+Mia+Boston&btnG=Search>)" or "[Mama Mia Musical
Boston](<http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&safe=off&client=firefox-a&rls=org.mozilla%3Aen-
US%3Aofficial&hs=El0&q=Mama+Mia+Musical+Boston&btnG=Search>)". Try clicking on
those google searches. You get page upon page of ticket resellers and some
event calendar listings, but no links to the Colonial Theatre nor to
Ticketmaster where the tickets are sold.

This is a testament to the success of [SEO](</2007/12/05/geeky-seo-expert-
advice-debunked/>) I guess, but at the same time clearly a disservice to the
consumer.

It makes me **more sympathetic** than I had been of [Google's valiant and
continued attempts to defend against
SEO.](<http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&ct=res&cd=2&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.mattcutts.com%2Fblog%2Ftext-
links-and-
pagerank%2F&ei=J65aR_O3NYecerev2LEJ&usg=AFQjCNFHKdHqYGs33omdrv0ycInsMHlBXQ&sig2=HA9YQV4ne7UV1FQ0F3ladA>)

There may be a real risk that Google's search results get just as polluted by
spam as everything else, and some new white knight (=search engine) comes
along to take it's place.


