---
title: "Freebase.com is the semantic web"
author: Pito Salas


date: 2007-11-23T14:57:17
---



I am not an expert in the [semantic web but Freebase looks like it to
me](<http://www.freebase.com>). I am surprised more hasn't been written about
it. It is absolutely amazing and head-spinning. I will have a hard time
describing accurately, hence the headline.

For me, it seems like Freebase does what the Semantic Web guys have been
talking about forever.

In Freebase's own words: "Freebase.com is home to a global knowledge base: a
structured, searchable, writeable and editable database built by a community
of contributors, and open to everyone. It could be described as a data
commons. Freebase.com is enabled by the technology of Metaweb, which is
described at [www.metaweb.com](<http://www.metaweb.com/>)." ([from Freebase
FAQ](<http://www.freebase.com/view/helptopic?id=%239202a8c04000641f80000000010c2d04>))

A mental image for Freebase that works for me is that it is a lot like
Wikipedia with the major difference that instead of free form text and images
that you see in Wikipedia articles you see semi-structured layouts in
Freebase.

Semi-structured, that is, the information is structured via types: this is a
**person** , that is a **computer** , this other thing is a **country** , etc.
So for example, in the entry for BlogBridge (type is **Software Product** ) ,
you see a description of the software, just like in Wikipedia. But now, in the
section that says what platforms the software runs on there is a list of
entries of type **computer operating system.** So when I am editing the entry
for BlogBridge, and I want to correct or add to the list of computer operating
system it runs on, Freebase already knows the list of known operating systems.

Interactively on the web, it's quite interesting, but it really makes your
head spin when you contemplate what it means as an internet API. I mean we
have specialized APIs to look up books (Amazon) and CDs (CDDB) and many other
things. But here's a unified and communally editable pool of API accessible
information.

Check it out. It is worth studying.


