---
title: "Election day in Benton, New Hampshire"
author: Pito Salas


date: 2008-11-07T23:16:18
---



My post about Barack Obama's election was getting a bit long, so I thought I'd
break it up and get some more blog miles out of the story.

![](https://i0.wp.com/s3.media.squarespace.com/production/1075723/12829350/wp-
content/uploads/imagewell/Benton%2520map.jpg?resize=294%2C294) First of all,
check out this election map from Google. A few things to notice. First of
all,the outcome shows (as I said in the previous post) that Obama got a mere 9
votes less than McCain.

Given the comment that 'this is McCain country' we were pretty surprised and
really gratified to see this.

There were other signs though. One of the poll workers offered to hold our
sign while we went inside to get off our feet for a few minutes, saying "I'd
be proud to hold Barack Obama's sign."

She also said how exciting it was to see some Obama presence at little old
Benton -- this was the very first time either major candidate had a visibility
presence in Benton on Election day.

Cool!

The other thing to notice is (and this is a traditional theme of mine) the
miracle of technology. Within hours of the count by hand, by people in Benton
(see previous post) and a phone call that they presumably made to the New
Hampshire secretary of state) it appears on this web page, broken out by town
and county, in color no less. **That 's transparency**!

![](https://i0.wp.com/s3.media.squarespace.com/production/1075723/12829350/wp-
content/uploads/imagewell/chrisinbenton.jpg?w=584)

Here are two more snapshots of the day. In the first one you cann see the
Benton Town Office.

The reason that the sign that Chris is holding has all kinds of random
additional names on it is that we got the very last sign that the campaign
office in Plymouth had.

I wonder what would have happened if we arrived 5 minutes later!

The second snapshot is of the Barack Obama sign in wild apples that Chris
constructed right next to the ramp into the building.

During a pleasant chat with the town moderator we learned a few things.

![](https://i0.wp.com/s3.media.squarespace.com/production/1075723/12829350/wp-
content/uploads/imagewell/obamapples.jpg?w=584)

First of all, that no Barack Obama (or other signs) were allowed within 10
feet. We said we'd be glad to move or remove it if he said so (obviously we
didn't want to get into trouble ðŸ™‚

Later on, explaining what the town moderator's duties are at the election he
explained that he was in charge.

And for example he could kick out anyone he felt was disrupting or being
inappropriate the polling place. Ouch!

Still though he never asked us to remove the Barack Obapple sign.


