---
title: "Asymmetrical  conflict in the blogosphere"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2008-05-22
tags:
    - blogging-fairness
---

**Link: [Asymmetrical  conflict in the blogosphere](None):** ""



I met with a potential client the other day who was on red alert because there
were a lot of **nasty things** being said about them on blogs, comments and
forums. And I thought of the concept of asymmetrical conflict as we have
learned about it in recent years.

Even without knowing whether the criticism of the client was deserved: for a
single act, or a pattern of action, or not at all, it struck me that they were
in a very tough and unfair spot. If you look at nasty blog posts or comment
streams, it is hard to deny that there's a piling on, hit them when they are
down dynamic.

When hearing the people and effort that this client had deployed to try to
respond to this, and how helpless they felt, i did feel sympathy. Once a
thread about your company, or your product, or yourself, starts up, and gets
interesting, it gathers a crowd, maybe because they agree, but just as easily
because the attacker is funny or outrageous or clever in an evil way.

And then Google gets a hold of it, and before long negative diatribes become
number one and two hits when people search for it. And there's not a thing you
can do about it.

Basically what's going on is that individuals (bloggers but just as easily
comment posters) invest almost no time, equipment or money to create
essentially an attack which gets magnified 10 or 100 fold by the crowd
mentality and then the search engines, and which the target, no matter how
much time, equipment or money, cannot really defend against, even when it's
totally untrue or unfair. Asymmetrical conflict.  
  
Yeah I know this is the way it goes on the web and it's **just one dark flip
side** of all the good that we get from the internet. But I know I personally
will **think twice before zipping off a blog post or comment in anger.**


