---
title: "Stewart Alsop, Droid Doesnâ€™t, Google UI"
author: Pito Salas


date: 2009-12-01T14:39:00
---



This is an [insider's three-fer](<http://alsop-louie.com/gadgets/droid-doesnt-
its-not-ready-for-prime-time/>). In this article, Stewart describes his
[horrible personal experience](<http://alsop-louie.com/gadgets/droid-doesnt-
its-not-ready-for-prime-time/>) with the Verizon Droid. It's a fun read. Three
angles:

(1) It's been years and years since I've seen Stewart Alsop [publishing a
product review](<http://alsop-louie.com/gadgets/droid-doesnt-its-not-ready-
for-prime-time/>). Stewart, years ago, was totally famous in the tech world as
software taste maker par-excellence. Kind of like [Walt
Mossberg](<http://ptech.allthingsd.com/>) is today (whoops - you don't know
who Mossberg is?)

(2) All I've seen lately is [hero worship of Google
Android](<http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/09_47/b4156028709435.htm?campaign_id=rss_topStories>)
(cell phone software) and by extension, the new Verizon Droid. Here's a review
from Stewart that knocks down, slaps around, and buries the Droid. Wow!
Welcome **back** Stewart, or haven't I been looking in the right place? From
the old days, I am sure you [remember getting responses like this one
ðŸ™‚](<http://www.technovia.co.uk/2009/11/stewart-alsop-says-dumb-things-get-
attention.html>) By the way, here's what [Mossberg thought of
Droid.](<http://ptech.allthingsd.com/20091104/motorolas-droid-is-smart-
success-for-verizon-users/>)

(3) I've been meaning to call out Google's terrible user interfaces for a
while now. And I am not talking (just) about the [totally inscrutable
Wave](<https://wave.google.com/wave/?pli=1>) (also subject of excessive hero
worship, but in fairness, it's still pre-beta) but good old stalwarts as GMail
(great product with lots of UI suckitude, even though I use it every day) and
even the good old www.google.com. I mean look at
[Bing](<http://www.bing.com>). Simple and straightforward, and still elegant
and easy on the eye. And fast loading. Even the top-secret 'redesign' or
'update' of the www.google.com search page looks amateurish with ugly icons
and ugly colors.

Ok, that's my insider's three-fer. Each one could be expanded into it's own
post, and, maybe I will!

![](https://i0.wp.com/img.zemanta.com/pixy.gif?w=584)


