---
title: "Two movies: “Precious” and “The Texas Chain Saw Massacre”"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2009-12-31
---



( **Note** : Spoilers for both movies, but nothing that everyone probably has
already been exposed to)

I saw both these movies this weekend. [One I thought was very good but
disturbing](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precious_%28film%29>), the other I
thought was [so so, kind of sick, but I did watch it to the
end](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Texas_Chain_Saw_Massacre>). Yet
thinking about it, is there a core theme in common and what does my reaction
say about my biases?

[Precious](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precious_%28film%29>) shows the
plight of a teenage mother, pregnant with another child, in desperate
straights: she lives with an  abusive mother, she is kicked out of school,
people have told  her that she is stupid and worthless, she is desperately
poor.

[The Texas Chainsaw
Massacre](<http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Texas_Chain_Saw_Massacre&action=edit>)
shows several middle class teenagers with time on their hands exploring a
derelict old house and encountering a family of (sorry:) cannibals who proceed
to dine on these teenagers.

Ok: so you can tell which one **I thought was good and which one I thought was
sick.** But what do they maybe have in **common**?  In each case the movie
shows, closeup, events that happens, has happened, or could happen in real
life which is horrible.

You can ask: what purpose can be served - what point is there - to spending
your time making or watching such a film? It makes the viewer uncomfortable to
see it and **glorifies** or at least gives a platform to the bad guys who are
causing this misery.

Still my reaction to each movie was **radically different** , and I am
thinking more about the commonalities that I think I see between the movies.
What do you think?

![](https://i0.wp.com/img.zemanta.com/pixy.gif?w=584)


* **Link to site:** **[Two movies: “Precious” and “The Texas Chain Saw Massacre”](None)**
