---
title: "How the world changes (Was: Is the world ready for a replacement to Outlook?)"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2010-07-26T13:58:08
---



Now that I've been blogging for a while, it's fun and instructive sometimes to
see some of the older stuff that I wrote to see how fast our tech world
changes and how I myself changeâ€¦[Everyone loves](<http://reviews-
zdnet.com.com/AnchorDesk/4520-7297_16-5141451.html?tag=adts>) to beat up on
Microsoft's **Outlook**. Including me! See [Outlook Haters
Anyone?](</weblogs/archives/000396.html>) and [Outlook 2003
Rant.](</weblogs/archives/000373.html>)

It is true that Outlook is a bit of an **abomination**. It's large, slow, and
as of the latest release, the user interface has gotten that **much worse**.

Even Microsoft execs agree according to Rafe Needleman ([see link
above](<http://reviews-
zdnet.com.com/AnchorDesk/4520-7297_16-5141451.html?tag=adts>)): "I confront
Microsoft execs about these and other Outlook crimes whenever I get a chance.
The result is usually a **rolling of eyes** ; the Microsofties know they have
a problem child on their hands, but due in part to internal politics, it's a
very hard product to fix. "

Still it is also true that **everyone on the planet practically uses
Outlook**. I don't know the numbers but I bet it accounts for over 70% of the
email clients out there. Is there any point to trying to unseat it?

I am spending a few days with the **Java faithful** at JavaOne, getting a dose
of how the other half lives. The faithful hate everything Microsoft (which I
do not - I like Microsoft, sometimes begrugingly, sometimes bitterly, but I
like them.) They use Eudora, Mozilla and a few other apps.

But you know what **Outlook has that none of those have**? And this is the
reason why I continue to use Outlook? It has **great integration** between
your contact list, email, and calendar. Having a single master list of
contacts used across the board is **really important**. (The other thing that
Outlook has, which right now is not a benefit to me, but is super important is
group calendaring and meeting scheduling.)

So why is there **no other email application** out there (is there?) which
does this integration? No major one anyway?

Enter [**Mitch Kapor 's Chandler project
**](<http://www.osafoundation.org/>)(I shudder to call it "Mitch Kapor's"
because there are lots of other people involved, but that's what everyone
calls it.) They are trying to build just such a grand integration, inspired at
some level by that long ago, seminal application, Agenda.

I wonder if the **deeper Microsoft digs itself with Outlook** , the more of a
chance **Chandler** and others will have?

_Originally posted on Jun 28, 2004. Reprinted courtesy of ReRuns plug-in._


