---
title: "Rhapsody vs. iTunes"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2010-08-07T12:48:43
tags:
    - 20th-century
    - composers
    - genres
    - iphone
    - itunes
    - jazz-blues
    - mp3
    - music
    - music-taste
    - new-music
    - other-ones
    - playlist
    - popular-music
    - rdio
    - rhapsody
    - sea-change
    - similar-services
    - subscriptions
---



I think I might be entering a new phase in my music listening. I listen to a
ton of music, on my iPhone, on my computer, in my car, all the time. And up to
now it's always been downloaded (purchased) music that I organize manually
within iTunes. From time to time I've had subscriptions to
[eMusic](<http://www.emusic.com/>) and similar services.

As a result I have a **huge number of tracks** on my computer and on my
iPhone. And as my music taste develops, and I discover new artists and
composers, lots of those tracks are listened to rarely.

The alternative services like
[Rhapsody](<http://www.rhapsody.com/welcome.html>), which has been around for
a while. But I **didn 't like the idea of paying $10 per month to 'rent' music
**to listen to. Without owning it I would 'lose' the music if I ever cancelled
the subscription. I would be tied to this $10 subscription forever.

Lately I've been trying the various streaming products like Rhapsody,
[Rdio](<http://www.rdio.com/>), [Mog](<http://>), and various others. From
those that I've tried I still like
[Rhapsody](<http://www.rhapsody.com/welcome.html>) the best. Rhapsody is the
only one that organizes music into genres so that I can browse through for
example, 20th Century Classical. The other ones seem to be focused more on
current popular music, which I don't really listen to.

And I feel a **sea-change** coming in my own listening. I am really liking
[Rhapsody](<http://www.rhapsody.com/welcome.html>). I am playing more variety.
Yes, even among my 10,000 or so tracks on my disk I was finding myself
repeating the stuff I liked best. With Rhapsody I can go spelunking through a
category I don't know that well (e.g. Jazz Blues) and discover new music. I
can have a playlist playing all afternoon of music that I like that I never
heard before.

**And who cares about 'owning' a track anyway?**


