---
title: "The Boston node of OSDV"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2010-01-05 01:13:02
tags:
    - boston
    - development
    - elections
    - osdv
    - rails
    - ruby
    - trustthevote
---


I've been working quite a bit on the [Open Source Digital Voting
foundation](<http://www.osdv.org>) project over the last 9 months or so. It's
really weird but I've turned myself into a mini-expert on how elections are
organized and run here in the USA. It's fascinating and way complicated.

OSDV is a non-profit organization dedicated to developing a suite of election
(as in Democracy) hardware and software.

The umbrella name for that project is
[TrustTheVote](<http://www.trustthevote.org>): an open source project, which
will work closely with election officials around the country to learn
requirements and then develop software which in turn will be offered free of
charge to those who want to deploy it. So we won't be selling the technology,
but we will be evangelizing it like crazy. Think **Apache** or **Drupal**.

Here are some links to satisfy your curiosity:

  * [OSDV](<http://osdv.org/>)

  * [TrustTheVote](<http://www.trustthevote.org/>)

  * [TrustTheVote Wiki](<https://wiki.trustthevote.org/index.php/Main_Page>)

  * [Code](<http://github.com/trustthevote/registrar>), [Code](<http://github.com/trustthevote/tabulator>), [Code](<http://github.com/trustthevote/ElectionManager>)

We are getting closer and closer to being properly funded with some major
contributions so it is **time for me to start finding people** who might want
to join the team. This being an open source project, the idea is of course
that any interested person can look and work on the code.

But we also **plan to hire 3** developers in the Boston area. Right now it
looks like a good part of our code will be Ruby and Ruby on Rails. But that
may change; it certainly will be broadened. Really more than anything I would
ask if you consider yourself a really good software developer, who loves to
design, write, debug and deploy code. And then secondly I would ask if working
on a project that is mega ambitious and/but that has a chance to really have
an **impact on our society** - whether that excites you.

Please contact **me directly** if you want to learn more or throw your virtual
hat into the virtual ring.

![](https://i0.wp.com/img.zemanta.com/pixy.gif?w=584)


