---
title: "Charitable Mutual Funds (updated)"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2011-03-11
tags:
    - charity
    - giving
    - guidestar
---

[**Note** : don't assume you know what a Charitable Mutual Fund is. It's an
evocative but really misleading name but I don't have a better handle for it
yet. This is not an investment vehicle, it does not return any money. It is
way to allow a donor to donate to one or more causes that match certain
objectives. Please read on…]

**Scenario** : What if I wanted to make a charitable gift to reputable non
profits, who work in my state, who focus on homelessness? I could research it
with various services (such as [GuideStar](<http://www2.guidestar.org/>)) I
might see one or two that speak to me, and decide to write a check or two. Now
of course they would come back to me a year later (or sooner) to ask for
another donation, and maybe I would or maybe I'd like to pick a different one.

So here's an idea that (literally) came to me in a dream. I don't remember the
story line but this idea stuck with me.

What if there was an organization (itself a non-profit) that automated this
and did this for me. In other words, I would fill out a form describing the
kind of work I wanted to support:

![Screen shot 2011 03 11 at 11 05 21 AM](https://i0.wp.com/salas.com/wp-
content/uploads/2011/03/33084-screen-
shot-2011-03-11-at-110521-am.png?resize=462%2C278&ssl=1)

With that information I sent in a check for say $1,000.00. They would
**immediately apportion** that check according to my specification and make
one or more donations on my behalf. If I wanted to do this say annually, they
would could manage that as well.

I call this a "**Charitable Mutual Fund** " because, like a mutual fund, a
entrust a third party to 'invest' my funds according to a certain guideline
that I give it. And I empower them to adjust the donations based on their
judgement of the individual causes.

**Now the term "Mutual Fund" could be very misleading and therefore might be
totally wrong. **It implies investment and appreciation. What I am describing
here is not an investment vehicle at all and would actually not hold on to any
funds at all, nor would it have any returns for donors.

Charitable Mutual Funds could either be "**actively managed** ", where a
presumably smart board of advisors would determine the best and most deserving
charities that matched my particular focus, or they could operate like an
"**index fund** " where an algorithm would simply grab the 10 or 50 highest
rated charities and distribute donated funds pro-rata.

**Does this already exist?** I did a quick web search and saw no evidence of
it but it strikes me as something that easily could have been created before.
At any rate, I am in no position to implement this myself. I also think it
would be non-trivial to build with challenging legal, tax, confidence and
marketing issues to figure out. But if it doesn't exist, it might be a great
boost to the world of non profits.

What do you think?

_… ….. later in the day………._

**One problem** with the idea as described is that makes the act of donating
to a cause very impersonal. You always read, make sure you've looked into
whatever cause you want to support to make sure it is what you are looking
for. Follow what they are doing. Get to know them. The model I describe flies
in the face of that.

Now of course the same could be (and was) said about stock mutual funds. Only
invest in companies you really know, don't just copy someone else's investment
ideas. But of course we learned that there is a very real role for stock
mutual funds.

A second response would be that our service would have an option where you
received a quarterly update indicating what charities were supported by your
donations, what they have done, and so on. Or you could even have a chance to
approve a change in the roster of charities that your donation would be going
to.

So there are good ways to overcome this objection.


* **Link to site:** **[Charitable Mutual Funds (updated)](None)**
