---
title: "The flaw in the deal"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2011-08-01T18:26:38
tags:
    - debtceiling
    - politics
---



I am assuming that you've followed the nonsense that has been going on in
Washington D.C. about our so-called debt ceiling. If not this post will be
meaninless and boring to you.

[The deal stipulates that a new super-commision will be formed to sort out the
additional 1+ Trillion in defecit reduction. A majority of the commission has
to agree on the particular program which will then be sent to the Congress for
a "simple" up or down
vote.](<http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424053111903520204576480123949521268.html?mod=WSJ_Home_largeHeadline>)

The **famous triggers** are designed to force this commision to come to a
recommendation and the congress to accept them, because if they don't there
will be **trouble**. Trouble in the form of a forced set of cuts to Social
Security (which liberals will hate) and to Defense (which conservatives will
hate.) So the commision is amost **guaranteed to come up with a compromise** ,
even if very difficult, because the alternative, the trigger will be
**unacceptable**.

Hmm. **Didn 't we just go through this?** There was an alternative which would
be so unbelievably painful, that both sides could not help but make a
compromise. That didn't happen. No, the tea party decided to hold us all
hostage (yes, I think that analogy is apt) and threaten to let the untinkable
happen if they didn't get their way.

The **same damn thing** will happen again with the so-called select committee.
They will hold out to get everything they want even if it would mean serious
and dangerous cuts to defense and serious and inhumane cuts to social
security.

I don't know who or why anyone thinks this time will be different.


