---
title: "Khan academy to the rescue"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2011-10-25
tags:
    - learning
    - trigon-tagometry
---

**Link: [Khan academy to the rescue](None):** ""



If you haven't heard about [Khan Academy](<http://www.khanacademy.org>), let
me be the first one to introduce you to its wonders. There is [a huge library
of 10-12 minute educational videos on high-school and college level topics
from matrix math to trigonometry to how mortgages
work](<http://www.khanacademy.org/#browse>). You need to read the [background,
it's an unbelievably prolific individual guy,
Kahn,](<http://www.khanacademy.org/about/faq>) who records each one of these.
From what he says, he's not an expert in all of them, he just 'bones up' on
the topic and then records the session. The quality of the teaching is really
amazing.

Case in point. A few weeks ago I had to recall how and why matrix
multiplication works. I knew that stuff cold, 40 years ago. Yesterday I had to
bone up on sines and cosines and the simple math there. I didn't even remember
that this stuff is called trigonometry (I was looking under geometry.) In each
case I thought, oh I will [just google it. I will look in wikipedia. I spent
15 minutes without success ](<http://www.basic-mathematics.com/common-
geometry-formulas.html>)and then I went to [Khan
academy.](<http://www.khanacademy.org>) Another 20-30 minutes later and I was
up to date on the [basic trigonometry
](<http://www.khanacademy.org/video/basic-
trigonometry?playlist=New+and+Noteworthy>)and matrix knowledge that I needed.

Amazing. Check [Khan Academy](<http://www.khanacademy.org>) out.


