---
title: "Support your local bookstore"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2012-01-26T23:40:21
tags:
    - amazon
    - bookstore
    - independent
---



I have a **warm spot** in my heart for independent bookstores, as such a store
**paid for my college education.** My family business was a bookstore. It is
no longer around however, having gone out of business years ago. Blame
**Amazon**?

Secondly, I read **lots of books** , and own even more. (Yes that implies that
I buy books that I don't read. I don't feel bad about that. I **enjoy**
books.)

Thirdly, I love, I mean, I **LOVE** Amazon.com. What convenience, what great
prices, what free shipping. I even own some AMZN stock. In truth I bet in the
last year I **spent more money on books** at Amazon than from local
bookstores.

See the **conundrum** coming?

Whenever I am in a strange town, or out 'shopping' or on vacation, I can spend
lots of time browsing bookstores. I will **buy books** sometimes, and
sometimes I will write down book titles for later consideration, or **even
later Amazonning.** Ok, so I am **conflicted** about this whole thing.

I would be very sad to see the local bookstore close.

Oh wait, the local bookstore in the town I live closed years ago. (We still
have a used bookstore, which I frequent.)

I don't have a punchline. I am not sure how I feel about this. Should I stop
shopping at Amazon and give up the convenience and good prices? Should I
**never order a book** on Amazon that I first saw in a local bookstore?

Here are **three articles** on this very topic, for your fascination:

[A letter from the owner of a great local bookstore, the Harvard Bookstore in
Harvard Square, Cambridge
Mass.](<http://campaign.r20.constantcontact.com/render?llr=jaojuicab&v=001bHw_LhcjpQoafcX7vACkf-
wYiN2SaF7J3mTJTddWShErvlSCchvgXqC6ouXlEozQEnLa8_Q212QALxLWhB_YFwYzavdLUPwgyzqIhAkmN_0%3D>)

[Amazon should partner with independent bookstores, an article suggesting ways
in which the two could benefit mutually.
](<http://blogs.hbr.org/hbr/hbreditors/2011/12/amazon_should_partner_with_ind.html>)Hmm,
perhaps a fantasy.

[Amazon's Jungle Logic,
an](<http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/13/opinion/amazons-jungle-
logic.html?_r=4&pagewanted=all>) Anti-Amazon screed from a set of authors.


