---
title: "Launch Conference: Day One"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2012-03-07
tags:
    - con-tagference
    - GEEKY
    - launch
    - products
---



The [Launch Conference](<http://www.launch.co/>) is starting today. It is
descended from many venerable conferences, particularly like
[Demo](<http://www.demo.com/ehome/index.php?eventid=29414&>). I was a fairly
regular attendee at the Demo conference over the years, and so far, Launch
seems to be continuing that heritage in a very impressive way.

Basically this conference is about Products, Products, Products. Particularly
software and web and mobile products. There's a really good energy in the
room, like the start of another gold rush ðŸ™‚ It is overlaid with the usual
Silicon Valley attitude and posturing, but that's ok, I kind of like that.

Each launching company is given 5 minutes to demo/preset their products. There
are 5 celebrity judges who will listen to the demos and then ask difficult
questions.

Here is a running list of products that look good to me. It will be my public
notebook. I hope you enjoy it ðŸ™‚

[**Mingly**](<http://ming.ly/>) - A way to easily remember who you have not
talked to in a while. A useful tool for obsessive networkers (like me) and
something that I have done with a Word file for years and years. Handy, but
it's a business?

**[Altluition](<https://www.alltuition.com/>)** : TurboTax for financial aid.
Very comprehensive solution to help students who are trying to decide what
University to apply based on cost and aid, deciding where to get financial
aid, and then actually applying to multiple financial aid sources. Looks
pretty awesome! (A google for Turbo Tax for Financial Aid, I find this article
about [AidAide](<http://bostinno.com/2011/04/15/harvard-sophomore-founds-aid-
aide-to-help-students-find-financial-aid/screen-
shot-2011-04-12-at-12-25-53-pm/>). Just shows, like there are no new ideas!)

[**Vocre.com**](<http://vocre.com/>)**:** Video calls with live language
translation. I speak in English. I see the text of my message to make sure
it's correct. I press send and my counterpart hear's my message in, say,
Italian.

[**Budge**](<http://bud.ge/>): Gamefication of exercise and other health
related programs and goals. Pushups. Meditation.

[**Hadza**](<https://hadza.com/>): Mutiple videos are often taken in different
locations, at the same time, of the same event: a concert, a sports game, etc.
But also a wedding or a place. If you record these with the Hadza application
they create kind of a 'director's console where you can decide what view of
the event you want to see, which audio you want to listen to. This looks very
interesting and cool. They do have to get people to record the video with
their app which is a barrier I guess.

**Robin** : Voice activated tool for driver: find parking, check on traffic,
and navigate. Will it really work? Judges debate the defensibility of this
product. "Natural language is the new taxonomy of the web" one of the judges
says. Not sure about the word "taxonomy" here but the point is that there's a
belief that services like Siri will be the entry portal of a most services on
the web.

[**uGokit**](<http://ugrokit.com/>): Finding stuff you lost. $1 tag you put in
or with the thing you might lose. It's an RFID tag. There's a reader and an
app. When you lose your charger, watch, wallet, you can use your iPhone like a
geiger counter to locate it. Also making sure that I didn't leave for the trip
without my required items, leave for my gym without everything, and so on.
$150 for the app, the reader and 20 tags. Pretty cool.

[**trigger.io**](<https://trigger.io/>): Cross platform mobile product
creation. Allows me to easily create a HTML5, Android and iPhone apps in one
fell swoop. Comparable to [Sensa
Touch](<http://www.sencha.com/products/touch>).

[**mailerlite.com**](<http://www.mailerlite.com/hello>): Simpler and cheaper
mailchimp / constantcontact. Looks good. Proof is in the tasting.

[**benetracker.com**](<http://benetracker.com/>) - Track the beneficiaries for
my estate. like insurance and IRA accounts. When you die (!) they will notify
all the beneficiaries. Ensure that the money caught in estates get to the
intended beneficiary.

**[lifeyo.com](<http://www.lifeyo.com/>)** - Really nice, pretty to look at,
alternative to Google Sites or SquareSpace.

**[storybricks.com](<http://launch.storybricks.com/>)** - Allows gamers to
create story worlds and MMPG games.

**[wanderfly.com](<http://www.wanderfly.com/#!start>)** - Collaborative travel
planning. It has a very pretty user interface. The recommendations are not
just social, but from 'recognized travel experts. If it works it would be
great, but of course these kinds of sites live or die by the quality of their
content. It's true that TripAdvisor is not all that beautiful to look at but
it's got the content and the quality.

[**Zabbi.com**](<http://zabbi.com/>) - Some kind of social network which let's
you state what your current emotional state is and allows your friends to
boost your morale when they see you are sad. Cool!

[**Moosiify.com**](<http://preview.moosify.com/>) - Flirting over music. Match
meets Spotify.com. Meet people because you have similar musical tastes. A very
nice user experience. And they are also creating a Spotify application so that
the counterparts don't have to even have the Moosify client! This is really
interesting.

**[spacemonkey.com](<http://www.spacemonkey.com/#/signup>)** - I unfortunately
missed this one but it was so popular among the judges and audience that I
decided to add it to my list. For example, here's what [Rafe Needleman thought
of SpaceMonkey.](<http://news.cnet.com/8301-19882_3-57391989-250/dropbox-
rival-space-monkey-puts-cloud-in-your-house/>) To be honest, reading Rafe's
description doesn't impress me that much. I bought a 1Terrabyte disk last year
for $70 from Amazon. Storage is cheap. Why pay a recurring charge?

**[That Suspicious Behavior](<http://thatssuspiciousbehavior.com/>)** -
Another one that was popular with the judges that I missed. A way to "See
something. Say something."

[**HipSwap**](<http://www.hipswap.com/>) - Another one that I missed. Buy and
sell your stuff (a la crags list) but they include a pickup and deliver
service.

More tomorrow.


