---
title: "Corporate doublespeak or inspiration?"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2014-07-11
tags:
    - microsoft
    - mission-tag
---

Maybe I've been out of the corporate world for too long. And I do wish
Microsoft well because Google and Facebook and others need competition so they
don't totally ruin our world. So I read with interest [Satya Nadella's email
to employees which is available for all to
read.](<http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/news/ceo/index.html>)

The first thing that caught my eye is this abuse of logic and English: "We
live in a mobile-first and cloud-first world…." This phrase is all over the
place. Do you see the problem? [Maybe I am too nerdy in my parsing of English.

The second thing I caught my eye was that the salutation is "Team," Microsoft
has around 130,000 employees. I guess that's a pretty big team. But also, I
may be wrong about this. But all the examples (2) of emails from Bill Gates to
all employees didn't have any salutation. Hmm. I think the first time I saw
that salutation was in emails from Steve Jobs to Apple Employees.

Final annoying nit picking point from the Natella email: "At our core,
Microsoft is the productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and
cloud-first world. We will reinvent productivity to empower every person and
every organization on the planet to do more and achieve more." Hmm, that
singular focus looks like a 2×2 matrix, so there are four most important
things.

I know that a document like this that will be released to the universe past,
present and future, is a heavily choreographed piece with many authors. I
always had a hard time with corporate mission statements and such. And if I
received this as a way to get me excited and feeling that there was renewed
focus in the company. Well, meh.


* **Link to site:** **[Corporate doublespeak or inspiration?](None)**
