## My link blog, from Oct 27 to Nov 23

### petercorke/robotics-toolbox-python: Robotics Toolbox for Python


[ petercorke/robotics-toolbox-python: Robotics Toolbox for Python](<
https://github.com/petercorke/robotics-toolbox-python>) –Robotics Toolbox for
Python. Contribute to petercorke/robotics-toolbox-python development by
creating an account on GitHub.


---
### How To Use RTK GPS On A ROS Robot


[ How To Use RTK GPS On A ROS Robot](< https://medium.com/exploring-ros-
robotics/how-to-use-rtk-gps-on-a-ros-robot-a51e9aa2f2ab>) –Get accurate
positioning down to 14 mm!


---
### Document Your Python Code and Projects With ChatGPT – Real Python


[ Document Your Python Code and Projects With ChatGPT – Real Python](<
https://realpython.com/document-python-code-with-chatgpt/>) –Good
documentation is a critical feature of any successful Python project. In
practice, writing documentation is hard and can take a lot of time and effort.
Nowadays, with tools like ChatGPT, you can quickly document your Python code
and projects.


---
### An unbiased evaluation of environment management and packaging tools


[ An unbiased evaluation of environment management and packaging tools](<
https://alpopkes.com/posts/python/packaging_tools/>) –Amazing summary of all
the crazy dev tools in the python world.


---
### Ask Guy Kawasaki Anything


[ Ask Guy Kawasaki Anything](< https://www.kawasakigpt.com/>) –Let AI answer
your questions based on Guy Kawasaki's videos.


---
### Sample diagrams — blockdiag 1.0 documentation


[ Sample diagrams — blockdiag 1.0 documentation](<
http://blockdiag.com/en/blockdiag/examples.html>) –


---
### Excalidraw — Collaborative whiteboarding made easy


[ Excalidraw — Collaborative whiteboarding made easy](<
https://excalidraw.com/>) –Excalidraw is a virtual collaborative whiteboard
tool that lets you easily sketch diagrams that have a hand-drawn feel to them.


---
### Kroki!


[ Kroki!](< https://kroki.io/>) –


---
### Analyzing Data 170,000x Faster with Python


[ Analyzing Data 170,000x Faster with Python](<
https://sidsite.com/posts/python-corrset-optimization/>) –The article,
Analyzing Data 180,000x Faster with Rust, first presents some unoptimized
Python code, and then shows the process of rewriting and optimizing the code
in Rust, resulting in a 180,000x speed-up. The author notes:


---
### Making the EM5 mk 2 High Res Mode Sing By Brad Nichol | Steve Huff Hi-Fi and Photo


[ Making the EM5 mk 2 High Res Mode Sing By Brad Nichol | Steve Huff Hi-Fi and
Photo](< https://www.stevehuffphoto.com/2016/08/23/making-the-em5-mk-2-high-
res-mode-sing-by-brad-nichol/>) –Making the EM5 mk 2 High Res Mode Sing By
Brad Nichol - His blog is HERE Hi Steve, I though that some of your readers
might be interested in a little low down on the Olympus EM5 mk 2 high res
mode, it is certainly a popular camera but one that is difficult for


---
