---
title: "VC: Rumors of its demise are probably premature"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2005-05-25
---


>>

>> Not that I'm an expert or anything…

>>

>> In the last few days there have been several articles about the
**problems** in **High Tech Venture Capital**. One particularly interesting
one was in the New York Times on Sunday talked about the **exodus** of
recently minted venture capitalists from the business:

>>

>>> "We can't really have people **learning on the job anymore** ," Mr.
Kramlich said. Two-thirds of the partners who were at N.E.A. in 1997 are no
longer at the firm, he said, and then cited an internal study that went a long
way in explaining why: the surviving third accounted for 85 percent of the
firm's profit." ( **[from New York
Times](<http://www.nytimes.com/2005/05/22/business/yourmoney/22venture.html?>)**
)

>>

>> Another one, from Technology Review, a first hand report from Howard
Anderson, about why he is **leaving** the business:

>>

>>> " **Good** -bye! We venture capitalists like to think of ourselves as
giants striding across the technology landscape, showering money on terrific
young entrepreneurs, adding value, creating jobs, nurturing real companies. We
are financial samurai. But I am giving it up. Why? […] First, Technology
Supply is bloated. […] Second, there's a good reason why technology spending
is stagnant. […] Third, the financial markets for technology companies is no
longer exuberantly stagnant. […] Fourth, these changes in Venture Capital are
structural, not cyclical."( **[From Technology
Review](<http://www.technologyreview.com/articles/05/06/issue/invite.asp?trk=nl>)**.)

>>

>> For me, I'll say, I consider these **bullish** signals. The fact that there
is public hand-wringing about the "VC Model" makes me **predict** that the
next round of Venture funds will do **better** than the last few. But what do
I know?

>>

>> I was wondering if any of my VC friends would care to respond?

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [startups](<http://technorati.com/tag/startups>),
[vc](<http://technorati.com/tag/vc>)


* **Link to site:** **[VC: Rumors of its demise are probably premature](None)**
