---
title: "Interesting Wikipedia situation developing"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2006-01-30
---


>>

>> Wikipedia appears to have banned all contributions and edits coming from
the US Congress!

>>

>>> "I am opening this RFC in order to centralise discussion concerning
actions to be taken against US Congressional staffers who repeatedly revert
wars, blank content, engage in libelous behaviour, violate WP:NPOV, WP:CIV.
The editors from this IP are rude and abrasive, immature, and show no
understanding of Wikipedia policy. The editors also frequently try to
whitewash the actions of frequent politicians.

>>>

>>> They treat Wikipedia articles about politicians as though they own it,
replacing articles with their sanctioned biographies and engaging in revert
wars when other users dispute this sudden change. They also violate
Wikipedia:Verifiability, by deleting verified reports, while adding flattering
things about members of Congress that are unverified." ( **from** Wikipedia
[Request For
Comment](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Requests_for_comment/United_States_Congress>),
**via**
[Digg](<http://digg.com/links/Wikipedia_blocks_United_States_Congress_IP_addresses>))

>>

>> I am not exactly clear on Wikipedia's dispute resolution process. It seems
**especially challenging** given the decentralized approach they take. From
reading the entry they do make a [real
effort](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Requests_for_comment/United_States_Congress#Evidence_of_disputed_behavior>)
to be organized and consistent in their approach, which is **impressive**.

>>

>> If you are curious you should [follow the link
above](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Requests_for_comment/United_States_Congress>)
and see what you make of it.

>>

>> **One curiosity** , don't know what to make of it: This entry is being
heavily and rapidly edited even as I type. Following the change history it
looks like the original author of the entry is someone who goes by the
Wikipedia name of Natalinasmpf. If you look up his or her bio, it starts as
follows:

>>

>>> "Greetings. I'm a politically active fifteen year old radical who lives in
Dover, Singapore, and I have a communist slant…even though my government
condemns it regularly (like every other country in the world). Generally, by
communism, I mean …" ( **from** [Wikipedia User Entry for
Natalinasmpf](<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Natalinasmpf>))

>>

>> So that's who is keeping the US Congress away from Wikipedia. The world is
flat after all.

>>

>> Technorati Tags: [wikipedia](<http://www.technorati.com/tag/wikipedia>)


* **Link to site:** **[Interesting Wikipedia situation developing](None)**
