---
title: "Curacao Notes"
author: Pito Salas
date: 2018-06-19
---



## What is this?

As I am always asked for tips on doing stuff in CuraÃ§ao, I thought I would
write them down here.

> Beware that all this is just my own, biased, weird, opinions. There are
> perfectly good restaurants, even popular ones, that I don't like because of
> the atmosphere or the price or the location. There are restaurants
> considered boring, that I like, for the same reasons. So buyer beware.

## Geography and Weather

Curacao  is a very small island. It's about 40 miles long and about 5 miles
wide. It's as if you cut off Cape Cod at the Canal and straightened it out.
However the roads are not as good. Still, the longest drive you can make
without doubling back is around 45 minutes.

It's basically tropical. Or desert. It's always around 80 degrees and with a
good breeze. In the "summer" there's almost never rain, sunny, blue skies
every day. In the "winter" it might rain a little more.

If you wear shorts, bring multiple sets. I wear only shorts almost all the
time. No need for a sweater of any kind.

Bring sunglasses, a hat, and suntan lotion!

Driving is pretty easy. Google maps will work, better still if you download
the maps so you don't need to use your data plan. Driving is on the right,
just like the USA. However the signs will not all be familiar, but common
sense. Yes people drive a little crazy but really not more than Boston.

## Where to stay

Always a very personal decision. There are tons of hotels and inns on the
island. I've stayed in a few of them. So here's a very idiosyncratic listing:

  * Royal Resort - A beautiful private resort with rental suites. It's not really a hotel in that it has just a minor restaurant but it is a gret setting with pools and beaches and fantastic setting.
  * Avila - Kind of old timey hotel. Very popular with traditional. 
  * Trupial - Motel-like, in Mahaai, one of the residential neighborhood
  * Renaissance - American-style large hotel, right in down town

## Food

Restaurants here are 1) expensive and 2) have slow service. Those are
generalizations but it's good to set expectations. That way you won't be
surprised.

Everything you eat here, almost, has to be imported, by plane or
containership. Also it's a tourist destination which also add to the costs.

Overall the food will be familiar to you. You will have no trouble with the
menus. Many of them are in Dutch, but almost all of them will have an English
menu if you ask.

You will see standard "American" food, or "French" food. You will also see
Indonesian (because Indonesia, like CuraÃ§ao used to be a colony of the
Netherlands.) Also a lot of "Dutch" food.

## Restaurants

![](https://i0.wp.com/salas.com/wp-
content/uploads/2023/02/IMG_2803-1-scaled.jpeg?fit=584%2C779&ssl=1)

**De Heeren @ Sea** : They have a really nice restaurant right on the beach.
Not fancy but with a great atmosphere.

**Goeverneur:** The Dutch word for Governor. I am not really sure I spelled it
right. But anyway, the big attraction here is the view. It has tables on a
patio overlooking Punda and the harbor. It's very pretty. The food is also
interesting and tasty.

  * **De Heeren @ Sea** : They have a really nice restaurant right on the beach. Not fancy but with a great atmosphere. 
  * **Kome:** A favorite "nice" restaurant.
  * **The Grill:** Outdoors, informal, decent and good for kids
  * **Omundo** :In the "suburbs". A nice kind of hip restaurant recently under new management.
  *   * **Number Ten** - Also in the "suburbs" of Mahaai. Created in an old residential mansion. Hip light food and coffee.
  * **De Heeren @ Sea** : They have a really nice restaurant right on the beach. Not fancy but with a great atmosphere. 
  * **Dames** - Also in the "suburbs" of SaliÃ±a. Light, delicious sandwiches, coffee and local stuff
  * **San Tropez** - In the hip neighborhood of "Pietermaai". All white, bright, kind of Euro-cool. Very blue swimming pool. Along the ocean on the south. Try the fish tacos, they are awesome.
  * **Roebieâ€™s** - for casual Indonesian food at zuikertuintje.
  * **Landhuis Daniel** - for delicios Dutch Pancakes.
  * Landhuis Brakkeput Mei-Mei We also had a good experienc here.
  * **Karakter** with its Spa the eight experience is great ( we are going there on Wednesday)

![](https://i0.wp.com/salas.com/wp-
content/uploads/2023/02/IMG_2804.jpeg?resize=584%2C438&ssl=1)

  * **The Wine Cellar** - Fancy restaurant
  * **Landhuis Daniel - **Interesting, recommend the dutch pancakes
  * **Estie 's Brasserie** - New restaurant that is highly recommended. Also owned by a friend of a friend ðŸ™‚

## Must See Site Seeing

  * Snoa - Mikve Israel Emmanuel Synagogue
  * West Punt
  * Boca Tabla
  * Punda -
  * 

## Places to Go by car

These are not "sight seeing" necessarily, they include destinations that might
have a bunch of good restaurants together, or a fun thing to do, or stuff to
look at. I list "beaches" separately.

  * **Zuikertuintje - **In the "suburb" of Mahaai, it's a typical small shopping area with various restaurants.
  * **Karakter** - Restaurant plus great _Spa The Eight_ is worthwhiile.
  * **Lion 's Dive/BLVD "area"** - Very fun area with beach and restaurants.
  * **" West Punt"**
  * **" Boca Tabla"**
  * **" Punda"**
  * **" Otrabanda" \+ "Rif Fort"**
  * **Hato Caves (near the airport.)** -
  * **Klein Santa Martha f** or beautiful views, atmosphere, food is not bad. You can also stay there as itâ€™s a small hotel.`

## Not as good as they sound

You might hear or read about these places but in my opinion they are not worth
the trip. Although I was surprised to hear recently of someone who loved the
Ostrich Farm, so, who knows!

  * Zoo or Botanical Garden
  * Janchi (or Jan Kristian) restaurant
  * Ostrich Farm

## Beaches

This is not a list of all the beaches. There are many more. These are the ones
that I like and have been to. I would recommend any of them.

  * **Lagun** - Very rustic, small and pictoresque beach. A favorite for snorkling
  * **Porto Marie** - One of the favorites towards the west end of the island
  * **Cas Abao** - Similar to Porto Marie, also very nice.
  * **Blau Beach** - Developed beach, closer to town. A little expensive.
  * **Kokomo** - Closer to town, and one of my favorites
  * **Jan Thiel** - Towards the east part of the island, very nice too

12.1306407-68.9063077


